Magick
By Coyote 23

What might be called thee conventional magician, say those trained in thee 
Golden Dawn, will spend a great deal of time and effort undergoing mental 
discipline training, thus enabling them to induce altered states of awareness 
such as trances. Thee Golden Dawn system places strong emphasis on astral 
projection. Thee "ordinary" persons (myself) reaction to this approach is "I 
can't do that." It's only after a long time, if at all, that you see any 
results. Perhaps we don't have thee necessary commitment but then why should 
we when its value can only be seen once you've done it. Lots of people dabble 
in magick but get no further. Also thee results and practise of such systems 
seem irrelevant to and in conflict with everyday life. This is not to 
undervalue mental discipline, but simply to say that most poeple don't have 
sufficient amount or thee commitment and desire to develop it. Sex magick 
provides a more accessible approach. Combining immediate results with a system 
of mental training. Being more accessible it reduces thee need for Gurus and 
gives thee individual a chance to develop. This is still a method of mental 
training or psychic development, to help intergrate Thee Self. Now as I've
tried to indicate such experiences of integration do occur naturally in 
"normal life." This is thee great value of using sex in acts of magick. It 
bases thee action on altered psychic states which are readily acheived and 
could be familiar if you bother to look at them. Such states, continuous 
reminders of our wholeness, do occur naturally in a number of forms to 
everyone. Even if they are difficult to induce or control they will still 
happen. Thee important point is that anyone can and does experience greatly 
altered/enlightened states of awareness. You don't have to be a great adept.  
Anyone can, during certain periods, be that Integrated whole self. You use 
thee energies released to direct every area of your life. Enjoy your Self you 
are whole.
