-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    II
---------------->>  II  <<-----------------------------------------------------
            <<------II------>>  Thee Temple ov Psychick Youth
                    II
                <<--II-->>      OnLine Transmission V1.00 Ratio Zero
                    II
            <<------II------>>  December 23, 1990
---------------->>  II  <<-----------------------------------------------------
                    II 

Send all subscription inquiries, submissions, feedback, text, bitching, etc to:
                      
                      kitsune@u.washington.edu 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents ov this file:
1> Statement b/Coyote 129
  2> First Annual Report b/Coyote 131
    3> Computers and Sigils b/Coyote 129 
      4> Expressing Emotions b/Kali 100
        5> Excerpts from Thee Grey Book
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1> Statement...
  Well, Here E am again! Thee EXTREME amount ov inclement weather here in
Seattle won't keep me from getting this out (although it may be a couple days 
late!) 
  E thank eou all for eour encouragement and other feedback. E appreciate it!
 
  This issue marks my first anniversary as an act-ive member ov TOPY, as such E
thought it would be interesting to ask others in thee network about their 
experiences while in thee Tribe. Coyote 131 was wonderful in his reply!
While his thoughts may seem strange to those that don't know about thee work ov
TOPY, his honesty alone reflects one ov thee main goals ov TOPY!! 
   
  Coum ov my work this y-era has been with thee use ov computers as Magickal 
Weapons. As >my< report, E present a first draft on Computers and Sigils. 

  Next we have an essay by Kali 100 from TOPY SoCal (Kalifornia). This is 
reprinted from their "First Transmisson" booklet. E dont have their new
address lying around, but e-mail if eou are interested in writing them..
 
  Finally, coum excerpts from thee Grey Book. Thee "bible" [haha] ov thee 
Psychick Youth movement. E encourage eou to write to TOPY US to get a copy
if eou are at all interested in becouming involved in thee work ov thee 
Temple:
        TOPY US
        Box 18223, Denver, CO 80218

> include a couple stamps and tell them that eou get this mailer...

now thee wants list: 
  Info on Austin Spare
  Info on Thee Typhonian OTO
  Info on MKULTRA Experiments
  Info on Thee Holy Grail
  Info on Sex

Enough? see eou next month... E will have an essay by John Balance on Tantrik 
masturbation, among other things... SEND EOUR ESSAY NOW!!

L-ov-e: Coyote 129     kitsune@u.washington.edu
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From: The wolf yoked to the hitching post of Ganesh. <vrksa@u.washington.edu>
Subject: First Annual Report 
Date: Sat, 15 Dec 90 18:47:40 PDT

As E near thee end ov 1990 and thee last Sigil ov this y-era E
look back at our growth, our expectations and thee changes in our
expectations...at a young age E realized there was great 'power' in thee
orgasm and experimented intuitively with thee different mind altering
capabilities of masturbation...thee following is one ov thee
experiments...even though E had N0 belief in gods and demons...at least
not beyond our own mindscapes as Jungian archtypes...E would make L-ov-E
to thee Moon...when thee Moon was full E would venture out beyond thee
field ov vision from thee farm house in which E grew up...into thee
fields and would strip naked at all times ov thee y-era...winter was
exceptionally exhillarating with thee intense cold and eeery light
reflecting off ov thee lunar landscape formed by thee snow...there E
would make my 'psychick scrifice' to thee Moon...thee E-fects produced by 
such an orgasm were incredibly different than ordianry masturbation...it would
give us heightened awareness and a sense ov transendence...at thee timE
E was not very theoretical as to what E was doing or what was happening
to us...E did feel as if E was touching something Magickal...E had been
told many superstions regarding thee luancy producing E-fects ov Thee
Full Moon and had quite a phobia regarding sleeping in thee light ov the
full moon...so such L-ov-E was quite taboo breaking in that fiyst E was
touching myself, secondly E was touching myself not out ov mundane
sexual satisfaction but out ov a desire to touch something deeper in our
'self'and thirdly E was breaking a personal taboo doing such a personal
act in thee light ov thee Full Moon...at thee time E might ov thought it
a reaction to the gravity E-fecting thee waters in our inner ear...or
possibly a reaction to the archtype ov thee goddess Luna E was creating
with thee power ov our OV...E do not now know our thoughts...it has been
ten years...but E most certainly felt an Energy...days go by...E leave
thee farm and thee fields ov our youth for college and apartment
life...E am intrigued by mysticism in all cultures and particularly thee
study ov Tantra and other psycho-sexual rituals...the taboo breaking ov
Tantra particularly interests us...as does thee Tantrik concept ov thee
wH0LE person one who has intergrated both thee male and thee female
principles within one's 'self'...  but am Turned Off by thee
heterosexism inherent in many narrow minded Western interpretations ov
Tantra...many ov thee sexual rites are called 'left-handed' or by thee
above mentioned westerners 'evil'...  and thee few all male rites or
onanistic rites that have homosexual references such as the direct
stimualtion ov thee lowest 'cakra' with a 'lingam'that is in less
esoteric terms thee stimulation of thee area below thee genitals (ie
thee anus and prostrate gland or sponge in thee female) with a dildo
which is symbolic ov thee ov creative power in male sexual
Energy...these are considered extremely 'lefthanded' or 'evil' and are
usually only mentioned in passing and in negative terms...this lack ov
information and fear ov Thee Red Death (aids) led to us to begin
devising our own system ov Tantra which E gave a working title ov O.T.M. 
for Onanstic Tantik Meditation...about this timE E recieved thee Grey
Book...there was much synchronicity...firstly between thee sigilizing
process and our own O.T.M. concept...secondly thee drawing ov blood,
thee spilling ov it on a paper and then thee signing ov thee paper was 
very taboo breaking...due to its  resemblance to Medevial pacts with 
thee Devil...these were all taboos which E held even though as E stated 
E do not believe in 'external' demons...  and it also incorporated well with 
thee use ov blood in Tantrik rites...thee third synchronicty was that 
thee Grey Book arrived was read and our first Sigil was performed on 
thee first 23rd ov this y-era....


Thee first Sigil was done impromptu...E had just finished reading thee
Grey Book and it was near thee 23rd hour ov thee day...so E got a candle
and put on thee stereo Themes 2...thee mind altering power ov sound 
intersts me...E ritually bathed...this consists ov laying in thee bath
and giving our 'self' a golden shower...other than thee alchemic 
significance ov this thee turning ov a base act into gold...E also
Emagined that all ov thee negative Energy in our body to be passing out ov
E with thee urine...and then quickly showering...E then kneeled before
thee candle with a dagger E smuggled from Mexico, apen and
paper...quickly jotting done thee most ideal sexual fantasy e could
think ov in thee time remaing...in Essence it had S/M overtones dealing
with Control...being completely in control, aggressive, aware, active and 
pentrating...this being thee Tibetan model of male sexual Energy thee 
inverse of the Hindu model where the male is passive... having sex 
with thee complete opposite ov an ambiguous sex...this model E have 
continued to use...at thee timE it was only thee most ideal fantasy,
only later did E begin to realize some ov thee symbolism involved and 
in fact E am still discovering something new each timE...E then marked
thee paper with thee most relevant symbol at thee timE, a  Psychick 
Cross...E spit, cut hair and pubic hair placing it in thee spit...E
then cut myself quickly and sharply just enough to draw a drop of 
blood whcih E smeared on our signature...  excitation is hard after
cutting, but by concentrating hard on thee fantasy E was also able to
get hard...a true act ov WILL...E then masturbated to climax
contemplating one ov three things alternatingly...thee fantasy...thee 
flickering flame ov thee candle...thee concept ov thee Temple 'where' an 
unknown number were also Sigilizing at that moment...this last focus 
was overwhelming and what brought about thee climax...covering E, thee
foor and thee nearby paper with OV... E had gone into this first Sigil
with N0 expectations...and came out with a sense of transcendence E had
not had for y-eras...


Thee next few sigils were not as nearly as awe inspiring...E did not
lose heart...E changed thee ritual musick E used to some ov our own
origin literally...using tapes of thee sounds ov sex and our first 
tatoo combined with E playing thee Tibetan Bell, Bowl and Thighbone 
Trumpet ...along with thee Enochian Chanting ov Crowley and thee tolling
ov a funeral bell ...this piece is very mind altering in itself...at 
least for E...propably due to how personal these sounds are...  
(for more theories on this see:  The Job  by W.S.B.)...this ritual
musick greatly enhanced thee Sigilizing  Process by making it more my own...


Thee next great change came during "Thee Rites Ov Passage"...thee
greatest hurdle for E was thee lack ov control...until E had dream
flashes ov our ideal fantasy...only from a different view point...from 
thee object ov our lust...E experienced a loss ov subject-object 
relationships and had a sense ov wH0LEness...


Thee next Sigil E performed was a spontaneous act...E was using thee 
dreamachine and began to have clear distinct images ov our ideal 
fantasy...so E took that as an omen even though this was not on 
thee 23rd...grabbed a blank piece ov paper and thee dagger 
using thee dreamachine as thee only light source... 
E performed thee Sigil with 'eyes' closed...


Thee penultimate Sigil ov 1990 was performed after spending thee entire
day on psycho-active chemicals...this one was thee most meaningful one
thus far...thee paper E used was an extra photocopy E made ov thee 
hermaphrodite form ov Siva\Sakti...with thee left side feminine and 
thee right side masculine...thee Tantrik symbol ov satiation without
desire...during this Sigil E had dream flashes ov thee ideal fantasy
from thee point ov view ov fist as subject then as object and back and 
forth til E once again E transcendent thee concept ov subject-object 
and experienced a sense ov wH0LEness...accompanied by Eg0 loss...thee
goal ov Tantrik ritual...this last Sigil left E with a sense ov 
'satisfaction with out desire' and E WILL try not to let thee most
recent success create great expectations as thee first Sigil did.


	"Time spelled backwards  
                is Emit...   
	 Time is that which Emits."
		     
    			G.P-O.		
			

					L-ov-E
					Coyote 131			
	 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Computers and Sigilization  <kitsune@u.washington.edu>
by Coyote 129

  E stumbled upon thee idea ov Computerized Sigils in late 1989, while drawing
Op-Art patterns on my old Commodore 64. There was a specific process that E 
performed on a seed image, that would always result in a distinct (yet similar)
result. It seemed to me that this was very much like thee way in which AOS made
his sigils. E performed 2 rituals using this tech-nique, both ov which have 
since coum to fruition... :-)

  E refined this core idea even further when E got an Amiga. Its sophiticated
grafix enabled me to manipulate images in ways that E never imagined with thee 
64....

  A favorite method ov myne is to take an image that represents thee idea that 
E wish to make a sigil ov, perhaps mapped over another image, or coum text, and
turn that image into a brush. Then shrink thee brush, to perhaps 1/16th ov 
original size... then enlarge back to original size. This will erase all detail
and eou will end up with a good stylized image.

  Collage is another good method. E use this method in conjuction with thee 
other method for a more direct visual stimuli. By combining stylized images with
"normal" images, eou can program both eour waking and un-waking minds.

  E recently got another tool to use, E was informed ov thee ability ov 
GNU Emacs to do cut-ups:

M-x dissociated-press    [M is thee Emacs slang for thee "ESC" key...] 

Is how one does cutups in  emacs...Supposedly giving it a positive
argument cuts-up by letter. Negative argument means cut-up by
word... It starts and places the results in the buffer Dissociations 
and asks you if you want more rearrangement... 
Much ^?more info in the INFO tree under Amusements Node...

  E did this to a copy ov last months mailer... here is thee output:

             He was
done withrouah ouah ouah'
To obtain a 'wonderful!  I'm doing for thee commight be called to the
signary ings Allies!
  Welcome quality of the auring column of Moholy' me, I beliends,' he
said to the floor, viande congels and Goring, Aught, and perhaps
making a blue of aware human being heliphaz Levisualization:  Thee
could 
ing enlight.'  Rudolk Culture Organization formit' hada, Merz, and
thefood, fat Rohm, now, I wanything) send it. Sidths allow myself a
full of my hitler pink skin alsocietices legs, body, Mersons (mysecret
Chiefs' of touch I 
visualizel (who translatered loungenitalstered lounge swastikarl
Haushoughts, quet for the 
Golden Dawn, will dawn sychick Youth.  Isn't thale for six: Nov, 23.
1990
------------If youth
             Hess work writtentional magicial ejaculation.  Lytton's
boo

E am very excited by thee potental ov this new tool. 

more to follow...  l-ov-e: 129
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXPRESSING EMOTIONS
b/ Kali 100

  Love and hate are positive and negative emotions. They are opposite from each
other and they both, in a sense, need each other. Or do they?

  Every human being feels emotion. Emotion being Love, Hate, and everything in
between. But where do these emotions come from? We will discuss thee answers to
this question step by step

 First, emotions tend to come from what we see and hear on TV and related media.
Since thee emotions from TV and related media are almost always over dramatized,
they aren't exactly true to life. People have a tendency to act-out thee 
emotions they see, therefore, over-dramatizing thier own true feelings in any
given situation. Over a long period ov time, thee dramatization becoums real.
This can explain why many people are "over-emotional" sometimes or all thee 
time.

  Second, emotions come from family and friends. We see how people we know 
express thier feelings, so we mimick each other, because we are never taught 
or given thee chance to express how we feel in a true spirit. Its kind ov like
monkey-see, monkey-do. Now thee result ov all this is billions ov people 
running around mimicking each other with over-dramatized love and hate, and 
saying its natural behavior. Is it really?

  Third, emotions come from within. We all love, hate, feel sadness, happiness,
and so on. How we express these is extremely important. No one can tell anyone 
how to truly express thier own emotions, we realize it on our own when thee 
time is right. There are some things, however, that should be considered..

 WE are responsible for how WE feel, and how WE express that feeling.

 Putting "blame" and placing "fault" on others for how we feel is something 
that we have been taught and shown to do, by TV, related media, and, in broader
terms, society.

 Controlling your emotions, and thee emotions ov others is another thing that 
we have been taught to do.
 
 Emotions are mental, and should not be manifested in negative ways. 
Negative being: blame, fault, control, violence, etc.

  To sum up, we are told to be-lie-ve that thee "real" world is like TV. 
Soap Opera love and hate. We are told to be paranoid ov our neighbors. 
Trust no one! Hate, hate, hate! Hate what we tell you to hate, love only 
people, things, and gods we tell you to love. Feel only what we tell you to 
feel, and we'll tell you how to express it.

  The person who explores their real Self, who is in touch with their real 
Self, who sees life as flat people dont see, is usually less apt to be 
over-emotional. They feel ALL emotions, but are always trying to learn to 
express them in positive ways. Consider this:

 If a person never said, wrote, or made any action negatively towards ANYTHING,
EVER; and just kept their negative thoughts to themslef, they would therefore 
not generate any outward negative energy, thus generating only positive, right?
Wouldn't this person then have to be relieved of all negative energy towards 
them? They would receive only positive: then they wouldn't have any negative 
to keep to themself. They would therefore have no conception ov what negative
is. It was never given to them, so they never felt it, experienced it, or gave
it to anyone else.

 Negative destroys itself. Thee all negative human will eventually destroy 
their self. Thee positive human will receive positive, and will eliminate
negativities inside them, and negatives towards them. What exactly is positive?
When it all comes down to it...it's LOVE. Integrate your whole Self by loving
and knowing your Self. Through ritual, sigil, and interaction with others, we
learn to love our Self. When we love our Self, we love life. Love is positive.
Psychick Youth strive to love and know their Self. When establishment control
eventually destroys itself, thee human race can survive, only through positive
energy. Thee time is NOW. It's never too late to start to love and know your 
Self. Eliminate thee negative, touch your Self, dont be afraid ov your Self,
live in your True Self reality. We will survive.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Excerpts from Thee Grey Book.

      THOSE WHO DO NOT REMEMBER THEE PAST ARE CONDEMNED TO REPEAT IT.

 Thee Temple strives to end personal laziness and engender discipline.
To focus the will on one's true desires, in thee belief, gathered from 
experience that this maximises and makes happen all those things that one 
wants in every area ov Life.
 
 Clean out thee trappings and debris of compromise, ov what eou've been told is
'reasonable' for a person in eour circumstances.
Be clear in admitting eour real desires. Discard all irrelevancies. Ask 
eourself who eou want as friends, if eou need or want to work, what eou want to 
eat. Check and Re-Check everything deeper and deeper, more and more precisely
to get closer to and ultimatly integrate with eour Real Self.
 
  Once eou are focussed on eour Self internally, thee external aspects ov eour 
life will fall into place. They have to.

  Skeptics will say they simply don't believe this Psychick process works.
  but it does.

  It is thee Key to thee Temple.

 Our enemies are flat.
 Our enemies are three-dimentional.
 Our enemies are continuity and coherence.
 Our enemies are restriction and confinement.
 Our enemies are guilt and fear.
 Our enemies are material.
 Our enemies are direction and fact.
 Our enemies are Because.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      >> End ov TOPY OnLine 1.00 <<
===============================================================================