From: Brother Bubba <jrbst31@unixs.cis.pitt.edu>
Subject: The Christian Olympics: 3. casting out demons/faith healing
Date: Sun, 04 Aug 1996 22:18:13 -0400
Organization: Brainwashed Victims of Christianity (BVC)


Disclaimer:  This is a parody.  It is not meant to be an accurate
depiction of the beliefs and actions of the people involved.  Any
similarities to actual events are purely accidental.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Bubba:  Let me add my voice to those prayers, Brother Miles.  That
atheist will soon be so busy dodging lightning bolts, he won't be
able to interfere again.  Now, the next event is the casting out
demons event.  The contestants will go to the main hospital here in
Jerusalem and will cast out the demons afflicting the people there.

Miles:  This will be an exciting day for those people in the
hospital.  For those watching, keep a close eye on Morris Cerulo.
This is his specialty!

Bubba:  How do you think the Pope will do?  Do you think he can
bounce back from his failure
in the previous event.

Miles:  I wouldn't expect a strong showing.  The Pope seems to go
through time consuming rituals when performing an exorcism and
there is a time limit of 25 minutes for this event!

Bubba:  True.  For those wondering how the scoring works:  each
demon cast out is worth 200 points.  Manny, has the hospital been
informed of the upcoming healings?

Manny:  Yes, and those doctors are trying to prevent it.  Their
main complaint is that all the pigs running around the building
will be unsanitary.

Miles:  Those stupid doctors.  What do they know about healing?
Jesus himself cast demons out of people and into pigs.  It can't be
done any other way.  If those doctors had read their BIBLE instead
of their medical texts, they would know this.

Bubba:  I agree.  I am reminded of Martin Luther's statement here,
"Idiots, the lame, the blind, the dumb, are men in whom the devils
have established themselves: and all the physicians who
heal these infirmities, as though they proceeded from natural
causes, are ignorant blockheads...."
                    
Miles:  He was an excellent authority on spiritual matters.  I'm
sure our listeners thank you for translating it from the German for
them.  Of course that isn't all, Luther also said that "A large
number of deaf, crippled and blind people are afflicted solely
through the malice of the demon. And one must in no wise doubt that
plagues, fevers and every sort of evil come from him."

Bubba:  Back to those blockheads complaints, has anyone tried to
get them to listen to reason?

Manny:  Well, it appears as though the contest will be allowed, but
only under the strictest observation.

Miles:  Why, once they see those invalids jump out of traction, 
those doctors won't give our Dream Team any trouble.

Bubba:  OK.  The contestants have just been waiting for the pig
controversy to be settled.  Truckloads of pigs have just been
released inside the hospital and our contestants are OFF!

Miles:  I'm so excited for those poor invalids.  Still, though, I
am afraid that that atheist will try and interfere again!

Bubba:  Oh No!  Alarms are going off in all the rooms, especially
in the intensive care unit!  What is happening, Manny?

Manny:  The doctors are going nuts around here.  They may be
afflicted with demons.  The pigs have knocked over several IV
stands and the doctors are trying to prevent Morris Cerulo from
entering.

Miles:  Those idiots!  Looks like he's gotten through now!

Manny:  He has!  He is approaching an unconscious invalid and has
just knocked him on the head saying, "TAKE IT in JESUS's name!" 
The invalid has fallen out of the bed and is quivering on the
floor!

Miles:  OUR first healing!  Praise JESUS!

Manny:  The Pope has also come in and is sprinkling Holy Water
everywhere.

Bubba:  What is he saying?  I can't make it out?

Manny:  He is chanting, "The power of Christ compels you!  Get thee
behind me Satan!"

Miles:  Looks like Morris has just ripped the bandages off that
burn victim and has smacked him on the head.  Look at those pigs
run wild.  They must have the demons in them!

Manny:  Hallelujah!  Morris has just healed another one of the
possessed.  The person is flopping around and turning blue as the
demon leaves his body.

Miles:  Damn that atheist!  He's interfering again!  He has
inserted some sort of tube back into the patients throat.  Why, I
bet that the demon will crawl through that tube and possess that
poor man once again!

Bubba:  It's true!  He's not blue anymore!  We may have to give the
atheist a negative score for that!

Manny:  Oh NO!  Pat Robertson tried to jump into the action, but he
slipped on some pig dung and hit his head.  Hope he's all right. 
It is pandemonium here.  The pigs have taken over three entire
wings of the hospital.  The doctors are attacking the Dream Team. 
They've just jabbed the Pope in the butt with a syringe, and he's
going unconscious!  Looks like they've stuck Mother Theresa, Jesse,
Oral Roberts, and Jerry Falwell with a syringe too!
 
Bubba:  Those doctors are the ones possessed by demons!   Hey, what
is that atheist doing to Pat?

Manny:  The atheist has taken the Holy Water from the Pope and
thrown it on Pat!  Oh NO!  Pat has revived!  He is healed!  The
atheist has scored!  Now it looks like security guards have tackled
Morris and Billy.

Bubba:  What do they have in their hands?

Manny:  Looks like a strait jacket.  That atheist is the one that
needs the strait jacket!

Bubba:  And Morris was halfway into a healing, too.  He had just
ripped those wires off that patient's chest when the guards put the
strait jacket on him!  Manny, what's that horrible sound coming
from the EKG?

Manny:  The patient is dead, Brother Bubba!  Hope that demon didn't
take his soul!

Bubba: Those security guards should be charged with murder for
interfering with Morris!

Miles:  Look at that stupid atheist! He just shouted 'clear' and
stuck two paddles on that dead patient's chest.  He must be trying
to shock him back to life.  Doesn't he know that the raising the
dead contest isn't till later?

Bubba:  Times UP!!!  Let's get the Dream Team outta there!

Manny:  The guards have thrown everyone out onto the street and
have begun shooting the possessed pigs.  We should be able to have
quite a barbecue later.

Bubba:  Great!  Now we can give the hams to the starving Jews.

Miles:  They should love it!  I must admit, I'm looking forward to
tryin' some myself.  I haven't been able to get a ham sandwich
since I got here!

Bubba:  Good thing Paul said it was ok to eat pork, don't you
think?

Miles:  Sure is.  So, how did the scoring turn out for this event?

Bubba:  Well, as expected, Morris Cerulo dominated this event with
2 1/2 healings.  Surprisingly, our judges have ruled that Atheist
deserves credit for one healing.  No one else managed to score.

Miles:  That Dream Team was up against the Devil's front line
troops there.  I just heard that over 70 people have died in that
hospital now.  Can you fill us in Manny?

Manny:  Certainly.  It seems that the pigs knocked over IV stands
and damaged vital equipment.  The iron lung is permanently out of
commission.  The hospital staff is swamped and several people have
been fatally wounded after slipping in pig doo doo.

Miles:  If they had left the Dream Team alone to do their good
work, this would not be happening.  The Lord is visiting His swift
and just retribution upon them!

Bubba:  Amen!  The tally now is:

               Pope - 995 pts.           
               Jesse Jackson - 610
               Morris Cerulo - 550    
               Mother Theresa -238
               Atheist - 205
               Billy Graham - 30
               Oral Roberts - 25
               Jerry Falwell - 5
               Pat Robertson - 0
               Robert Tilton - (-5) (injury)
               Benny Hinn  -  (-5) (injury)
Any comments Brother Miles?

Miles:  As I said, Morris made his move, but still hasn't made up
enough ground to match the Pope's heroic performance in the
circumcision contest.  Mother Theresa has dropped in the standings,
but I still consider her a serious medal contender, especially
since Morris is weak in the other events.  The big surprise has to
be that shameful atheist.  I'm beginning to wonder if Satan has
been influencing the judges.  That Atheist has interfered with
Billy, Oral, Jerry, and Pat,  so I don't feel their scores truly
reflect upon their faith in Jesus!

to be continued...

