From: Brother Bubba <jrbst31@unixs.cis.pitt.edu>
Subject: The Christian Olympics: 8. Lion taming
Date: Wed, 07 Aug 1996 00:51:53 -0400
Organization: Brainwashed Victims of Christianity (BVC)


Disclaimer:  This is a parody.  It is not meant to be an accurate
depiction of the beliefs and actions of the people involved.  Any
similarities to actual events are purely accidental.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Bubba:  Good analysis.  Up next is the lion taming portion of our
program.  Each of the contestants will be led one by one at 1
minute intervals into the lions cage at the Jerusalem zoo.  Those
Lions haven't been fed for over a week!  After remaining in the
Lion's den for 12 hours, they will leave.  Successful navigation of
this grave peril is worth 1000 points.  What is the history of this
event, Brother Miles?

Miles:  Well, Bubba.  Daniel was the first to undergo this test,
but he certainly wasn't the last!  Those Romans loved sending
people who claimed to be Christians to fight lions in the arena. 
However, when they realized the lions wouldn't eat true Christians,
the Romans put fake Christians, called gladiators, in there to be
eaten instead. That way people would be afraid to become
Christians.

Bubba:  This strategy obviously didn't work.  Well, here we go!
Manny, what is happening?

Manny:  Oral has just come back from the funeral and is trying to
pull out of this event too!  However, there is a no-withdrawal rule
in effect for this event:  the judges just had him picked up and
thrown in!

Miles:  Just wait till that Atheist goes in there.  Those lions are
gonna have a feeding frenzy!

Manny:  Great Scott!  The lions have just mauled Oral and... blood
is spewing everywhere...  Ouch!  The lions have torn him into 4 big
chunks... some of the lions are rolling around in the gore.  They
seem to be very grateful for this feast that the LORD has provided
for them...  Aww, how cute!  Look at that little lion cub gnawing
on Oral's severed head!

Miles:  (smirking) Look at those chunks of flesh and skin stuck
between his teeth.  Hope his mother makes him brush and floss....
We can't stress "Oral" hygiene enough to our young viewers!

Bubba:  Ha Ha Ha! You're right, Brother Miles!  I don't understand
why this has happened though!  But we can't know everything GOD
does.  HE had his reasons, I'm sure!

Miles:  Correct!  We shouldn't even question why this happened. 
GOD is everywhere, he's omnivorous.  This is all part of some
wonderful plan that He has for Oral's life.

Manny:  Billy Graham has been pleading to go home!  But the judges
are adamant and are pushing him into the cage.  Wow!  Billy has
just gone unconscious.

Miles:  Amazing cool!  How can he sleep at a time like this?

Manny:  Billy has just been tossed to the lions and ... The lions
are gorging on him almost immediately!  He hadn't even hit the
ground before they tore huge chunks from his hindquarters.

Bubba:  My, My, My! The Lord surely does work in mysterious ways!
Well, I'm sure GOD won't let Mother Theresa get eaten.

Manny:  Mother Theresa is whimpering and crying.  She is calling on
Jesus to save her!  The judges have just tossed her in too!

Miles:  This should be fun to watch.  I bet GOD is going to put
those lions to sleep.

Bubba:  They do look a little slower.  Perhaps they have been
satiated!

Manny:  A lioness has just swatted Mother Theresa!  She is sprawled
on the ground now.... trying to crawl away.... her stump is slowing
her down.  Wow, the lioness has hooked her claws on Mother
Theresa's leg and has drug her back... the lioness is swatting her
back and forth like a pinball....

Bubba:  That's got to be disorienting.

Miles:  The LORD's mercy is great!  He hasn't let the lioness kill
her!

Manny:  Uh OH!  Here comes the lion.  He ...  He ... Wow, it is
amazing that her entire head fit inside his mouth!  He just bit it
off and swallowed it whole!  Wait, Jesse and Morris are in now too!
The lions haven't noticed them yet!  I was so enthralled watching
the lioness that I didn't see them thrown in!  The lions seem to be
taking a siesta!

Bubba:  Morris is rubbing himself with lion dung!  Brilliant!  Who
would want to eat food with dung all over it.

Miles:  Well, Ezekiel swore by it!  He used cow's dung instead of
lion's dung, though.  In Ezekiel 4:7-19  he describes how to make
tasty cow dung sandwiches!

Bubba:  That doesn't sound very tasty.

Miles:  Au Contraire, mon frere!  Why, I make my kids eat them
every day at school!

Bubba:  Is that healthy?

Miles:  Why, of course it's healthy!  The LORD wouldn't order you
to eat anything unhealthy!

Bubba:  I'll have to give it a try.

Manny:  Atheist has just been thrown in...  He has a whip in his
hand... But the lions are asleep now...  Great, we have 4 
contestants in the lions den now.... Jesse, Morris, Atheist, and
the Pope!

Miles:  Wake up, kitty! Eat that Atheist!  I don't understand why
that Atheist isn't being eaten.

(12 hours later)

Bubba:  Well, four contestants have just walked out of the lion's
den.  They seem sort of pale!
The current standings are now!
               Pat Robertson - 2400 pts. (dead)
               Pope - 2306
               Atheist - 2305
               Morris Cerulo - 2250          
               Jesse Jackson - 1610    
               Mother Theresa -238 (dead)
               Billy Graham - 30 (dead)
               Oral Roberts - 25 (dead)
               Jerry Falwell - 5 (dead)
               Robert Tilton - (-5) (injury)
               Benny Hinn  -  (-5) (injury)
Comments, Brother Miles?

Miles:  It is a tight race to the finish, but the Pope probably
can't be caught!  Looks like Pat's valiant effort was for naught,
but you never know, he could still get a medal!


to be continued...

