From: Brother Bubba <jrbst31@unixs.cis.pitt.edu>
Subject: The Christian Olympics: 10. Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego contest
Date: Wed, 07 Aug 1996 01:03:35 -0400
Organization: Brainwashed Victims of Christianity (BVC)


Disclaimer:  This is a parody.  It is not meant to be an accurate
depiction of the beliefs and actions of the people involved.  Any
similarities to actual events are purely accidental.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Bubba:  Now we have our final round of competition.  The Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abednego contest.  This contest is easy.  Each
contestant will be tied up and tossed into a fiery furnace.  All
those who walk out will receive 2000 points.

Miles:  And those that don't will have begun their stay in Hell!

Bubba:  True.  Could you give us the history for this event,
Brother Miles?

Miles:  Gladly.  Three men who loved God very much refused to bow
down and worship idols to other gods.  They only worshipped God! 
Well, the King became very angry and had a huge furnace built. 
Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were tied up and tossed in. 
The flame was so hot that the soldiers who threw them in were
burned to death!  But Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were unhurt! 
Jesus himself appeared in the furnace to save them!

Bubba:  Do you think we'll see Jesus today?

Miles:  I guarantee it!

Bubba:  Well, the Atheist has shown up wearing some really weird
suit!  I think I saw one of those on a volcano special on TV. 
Manny, where is the Pope?

Manny:  The Pope wishes to withdraw.  He has just jumped into his
Pope Mobile! 

Manny:  Wait.... The judges won't let him withdraw.  They have
pulled him out of the Pope-Mobile and have tied him up.  The
atheist has been tied up too, and the furnace is being stoked to
its hottest temperature.

Bubba:  I wonder what the Pope is worried about.  Perhaps he
doesn't like the smell of burning flesh.

Miles:  That is probably it, Brother Bubba.  The Popes these days
don't like burning people any more.  Their nose is too sensitive! 
I'm am so excited right now...  That Atheist is gonna be toasted
tonight! 

Manny:  The attendants have tossed our contestants into the
furnace!  The flames from the furnace have burned those attendants
to cinders!!!  Smoke is everywhere, I can't see what is happening!

Miles:  This is reminiscent of the story in the Bible.  Now we get
to see Jesus rescue the Pope!

Manny:  Look, I see a shiny figure in there!  Is it the SON OF
GOD?...  NO, Damn it! It's the Atheist!  He has just hopped out 
of the furnace with a smile on his face.  There's no sign of the
Pope. Where could he be?

Bubba:  Perhaps he was raptured.

Miles:  No, it couldn't be that.  We're still here.

Bubba:  You are right.....  Perhaps he was taken up into heaven,
just like Elijah and Enoch!

Miles:  That is correct....  God just told me that the Pope is now
safely in heaven.

Manny:  The judges are conferring...  They have awarded Atheist
2000 points and the Pope 0.

Miles:  WHAT!!!!!!  They can't do that.... The Pope didn't die in
there....  No one saw him die....
This is the last time I cover these games.  They're all rigged.

Bubba:  I agree...  Well, here are the final standings:
               Atheist - 4305    GOLD MEDAL
               Morris Cerulo - 3150 (dead) SILVER MEDAL
               Jesse Jackson - 2410 (dead) BRONZE MEDAL
               Pat Robertson - 2400 pts. (dead)
               Pope - 2331 (missing)
               Mother Theresa -238 (dead)
               Billy Graham - 30 (dead)
               Oral Roberts - 25 (dead)
               Jerry Falwell - 5 (dead)
               Robert Tilton - (-5) (injury)
               Benny Hinn  -  (-5) (injury)

And so the first Christian Olympic Games end with a huge upset. 
Any final comments, Brother Miles?

Miles:  I've finally figured it out.  THAT ATHEIST IS THE
ANTICHRIST!  His dominance in these events are the signs and
wonders predicted in the Book of Revelation!  Hallelujah!  The
rapture should happen any minute now! 

Bubba:  Well, that wraps it up.  So long from Brother Miles and
Brother Bubba and the whole crew at Christian TV.  We'll be seeing
y'all in heaven real soon!

Miles:  (as the camera fades back)  Don't forget your harps!

