From: rackbran@ix.netcom.com(Steven Charles Houser)
Newsgroups: alt.magick
Subject: Scientific Evidence of Magick
Date: 27 Jul 1996 13:54:54 GMT


I wish to appologize for length of this post.  Like most things it
developed a freakish life of its own... I just hope that you won't be to
put off by the length... 

This is the first time that I've ever posted to this newsgroup before, and
I must admit that I do not know a great deal about magick, at least from
the traditional perspective.  I'm a grad student in physics, but unlike
many of my much more skeptical colleagues, I beleive that most ideas
(whatever the form or origin) deserve some consideration, rather then
being summarily dismissed simply for their associations.  Scientists often
have trouble accepting just how dependant much of their work is on faith,
and just how colored their thinking really is.  Consider acupuncture for
example.  To this day, western medical scientists and doctors riddicule
this 2000 year old Chinese system, despite the fact that in China ALL
major operations use it as opposed to chemical anestetic.  It has been a
SUCCESSFUL medical practice, with a tremendous number of favorable case
histories, and it is still labeled as a superstitious nonsense simply
because it lacks a western origin. 

What many people fail to realize, is how much science is dedicated towards
preserving its own particular status quo.  For example, undergrads are
often told to perform experiments.  The goals of these experiments are
NEVER to simply record observations and deduce a theory unknown to the
student.  In fact, the "theory" being tested is always the very first
thing the student is given.  The goal of the experiment is to record
observations, analyise the results and then explain why the experimental
data did not meet the theoritcal projection.  The student is thus trained
that if the facts don't fit the model, the facts are wrong. 
	 
Another example of this is found in the creation of new physics itself. 
If a new theory conflicts with those of an older scientist, it is usually
attacked ruthlessly, and often the author can suffer carreer problems.
This is true unless, some other scientist with equal clout defends the new
idea.  Then it undergoes a mystical transformation into a concept worth
thinking about.  This practice occurs so often that many short lived
coalitions (like the NAAP [New Association of American Physicists]) have
sprung up over the years (most have been disolved after their members were
effectively blacklisted).  And yet the cheerfully ignorant public
continues to view science as an area of absoulte knowledge and uncontested
truth. 

I have known about all of this for quite sometime, and while it bothered
me I have more or less accepted it as inevitable.  But I have recently
learned something that was rather shocking.  Apparently there has been in
existance a theory of mechainics that not only can explain the large and
growing number of psychic and magickal experiences, it also predicts and
solves many of the dillemas of modern physics today [including but not
limited to quantum wholeness, the nature of gravity, and several points of
EM].  It has even had a role in many of the greater discoveries in modern
physics.  Unfortuanately it has also been suppressed by ridiculas academic
pressures, and its uncomfortable implications. 

The theroy is called ethereal mechanics, and it was concieved by a high
ranking priest named Pierre Gassendi [1592, 1655].  Gassendi was by most
accounts a minor figuire in history, he was a friend of Kepler and
Galileo, he silenced many critics of Galileo, by proving that objects
droped in a revolving frame of reference fall straight down.  He wrote the
chief objection to Descartes work, Meditations.  In 1624, he became
Provost of the Cathedral in Digne, a significant honor.  After the
persecution of Galileo, Gassendi was torn between his friend and the
Church.  Unlike most of the stanch clergy of his day, he believed that God
in order to be God had to be knowable by his creation, and that one must
be able to approach him through reason.  In five years he finished a
little known work entitled, A Conjecture on the Role of Man.  In this
book, he hypothesised a radically different idea of the nature of matter,
and using this readily explained how the soul, and supernatural entities
could exist in a rigorous mathematical framework. 

One mistake he made was that he wrote his book in latin.  This precluded
him from distributing his book to those who only read in the vernacular. 
When one Cardinal read the book, he labeled it as heresy, and claimed that
it contained "black geometries" as well as "notions vast and blasphemous". 
Of course after Galileo's trial, the Church had no wish to prosecute one
of its own priests.  As the work had been poorly distributed, the Church
merely buried the book, and chastised Gassendi in private. 

So what was the theory exactly?  It is a difficult theory to discus
without resorting to its complex (and for the purposes of this post
largely irrelevent) mathematical formation.  Like Copernicus' ideas it
uses a great deal of geometry, and it even dips into the fundamentals of a
mathematical theory called topology (the mathematics of surfaces)
invovling limit-point algebras.  Basically the theory was that the nature
of matter were only propagations in a special material called ether. 
Essentially ether is everywhere and is what everything is composed of. 
What we call matter is really just a repitious patterned flow of either
(the void of space is essentially nothing more than completely
non-turbulent ether).  Much like the formation of a whirlpool in water. 
The whirlpool is not really seperate from the water, and yet it has many
properties that make it seemingly distinct from its medium.  A better
example can be obtained by considering a propeller.  When the propeller is
stationary, it does not look like a disc.  If the propeller were to spin
at tremendous speeds it would look and ACT indistinquishable from a disc. 

While this may sound strange, but it is not that far divorced from modern
theory.  For example, essentially the matter we touch is not really made
up of atoms but rather the electrostatic fields generated by those atoms
(created by the motions of electrons).  The modern discovery of the
DeBroglie wavelength demonstrates that all matter can be written in terms
of waves (which are, after all, merely propagations in a medium, by
definition.) It also bears a striking similarity (mathematically speaking)
to a new theory called the superstring theory, which basically states that
we are really composed of "strings" that are vibrating at particular
frequencies. 

The speed and pattern of the flow of ether is what determines almost all
of the physical properties.  If two fast moving flows touch exert
resistance (similar to presure in a liquid medium).  Slower flows can't
maintain large areas of turbulence and so act as disconected broken wave
forms (Gassendi's equations very accurately predict complex drift
velocities of liquids and gases using this model).  The faster flows are
(by laws of fluid dynamic) more turbulent, attract more ether in an area
(like a whirlpool), and by combination of these properties, are more dense
and massive in our reference frame.  (Incidentaly this explains gravity, a
currently baffling quality of matter.  Gravity in this system is merely
analagous to the "drawing" action of a whirlpool, just as more massive
objects have higher forces of gravity acting on other bodies, so do more
powerful whirlpools have greater "suction" or drawing force).  Another
interesting application of all of this is the seemingly reversed notion in
speed.  Air in this model is a slow ether flow, while ice and rock would
be fast ether flows.  Notice that this would seem to imply that things
with higher masses have more "energy", a biconditional not proved true
till the tweentieth century! 

How then did he attempt to explain magick, supernatural entities or the
fundamental forms of energy (heat light,etc)?  His arguements here were
crude, it very well could be that there wasn't enough math or physics in
existance to give him more sophistication to his model.  He basically
claimed that the patterned flow of physical objects could be of two basic
types.  The first was a simple flow (caused by more natural processes)
this was a turbulence created by very simple ether patterns of movement. 
The second were called complex flows, meaning that they were basically
simple flows with one or more intricate internal flows.  Since all of our
conventional senses and experience deals with simple flows (which define
an objects material/chemical properties), this is all we have real insight
to.  However things with complex flows are more rare, and would have
properties difficult to comprehend if we resigned ourselves to solely the
material.  The obvious example he tried to cite was the soul of man. 
These complex flows could definately affect material properties in ways
that would frustrate modern science (an example postulated in part by
Gauss and later writers, the so called unbreakable weapons of various
mythologies.  Consider a bar that has complex ether flows.  What if the
internal flows acted in such a way that they would redirect ether preasure
caused by translational material stress...in other words the energy one
trys to apply to bend or shatter the bar would always be redirected
everywhere but in the bar.  This is perfectly possible considering the
mechanics, and of course it might not be stable against other stresses or
heat [severe changes in the simple flow would probably destroy its complex
pattern as well.  I. E. melt down Exacalibur you get a lot of perfectly
normal molten steel].)

The Conjecture didn't stay burried for long.  Later, the book became
popular with a small group of scientists, in the late 17th, 18th
centuries.  It was specifically interesting for how it could explain the
phenomenom of light as a wave (specifically as a wave of ether).  However
due to some of its more fanciful assumptions (i.e. that magick exists,
etc) and the current attitude towards those assumptions, few scientists
would admit interest.  Scientists who made references to the book where
often labeled phantasts (which is from the greek phantastes, meaning a
boaster.  It also had the more modern definition of "dreamer", and thus
ridiculed on several levels). 

One physicist named Huygen, formulated a theory on the true nature of
light, basically taking some of the arguments of the book, and describing
it rather abstractly as a wave.  Fearing to be connected with the
Conjecture or the phantasts he thinly veiled his inspiration.  He claimed
that there existed a weightless material called aether (using the acient
greek spelling) and that all light was merely a propogation through this
material. 

Eventually aether became in the scientific mainstream.  But phantasts were
still a very persucuted minority.  Carl Gauss (the mathematician/
physicist responsible for over 75% of the math, physicists use today) even
arrogantly asserted in a few of his letters to other acadamians how he
would "disprove their [phantasts] claims fundamentally, absoultely, and
without question."  After finding many arguments and considerations worth
merit he wrote privately..." I abhor the direction of my calculations and
yet, damnably, I can find no error with them".  He went on to hone much of
the mathematical arguements that the Conjecture initaily raised. 

After all these contributions the mechanics of ether demonstrated some
amazing predictions.  In Gauss' private journels he cites a particular
property of this framework, namely since everything is in essence part of
a "pool" of ether, a change to any "object" nessecarily affects every
other object in the universe.  This is exactly the mathematical/physical
process called quantum wholeness (essentially predicted centuries before
Planck's constant came into existance). 

This is all well and good but what about magick?  After the mechanics of
harmonic oscillation were discovered, the crude arguments of Gassendi,
gain a life of their own. Most things have a natural frequency that they
vibrate at called their harmonic frequency.  Much like a swing in the
park.  If I push on someone riding the swing at precisely the right
moments, the energy in the swing accumulates.  If I push at the wrong
moments (like just as the swinger is comming down), the energy in the
swing gets reduced. 

Now one of the chief arguments against the existance of psychic power is
conservation of energy.  We know that the brain can't produce very much
power, and a great deal would be required to exhibit telekinetic movement,
for example.  What if it didn't need huge amounts of energy?  Simply
thinking causes ripples in the ether (as it involves the brain changing
its electrochemical state) .  Now assume that if you have a particular
thought formation next to a particular object.  Lets say that thought
stimulates ether ripples at the harmonics of the objects flow.  You could
quite concievably be able to induce a complex flow in the object (making
it essentially magickal) via harmonic oscillation, or even after some time
shatter it, move it, even cause other effects.  This would also serve to
explain the behavior of the early magickians, shamans, and sorcerers. 
One, not all thought forms in your mind are accessable via imagination. 
Pain or other unusual mental states might be required to reach the
harmonics of some objects, this would explain the wide spread cross
cultural existance of sacrafices and altered states of conciousness in
magickal rituals. 

Two, in order to be most effective sorcerers would have to leave populated
areas (other human minds would create ether "noise" affecting harmonic
oscillation), this would explain not only why magickians are thought of as
mysterious, but also why there are so few empirical scientific studies
that show evidence of the phenemenom (essentially the scientific observer
might greatly affect the conditions, simply by standing next to the
subject), and finally Three, it would explain the importance of magickal
symbols, and the value of multiple people at rituals (If seventy sources
all have the same oscillation, the amplitude, and thus power of the ether
wave transmitted would greatly increase in power). 

As for the existance of supernatural entities, ether is shown of having
many properties of both fluid mediums and that of string frequencies.  One
interesting theorm derived from the initial properties of ether space is
the fact that multiple objects may occupy the same space of ether and
never know it because their frequency of flow are out of phase.  This of
course, is also postulated in superstring theory.  Its like a stereo. 
When you've selected one particular radio station, the others don't exist
to you even though they are being broadcast at the same time.  Its only
sensitive to a particular range at any one time.  It is also easily
possible that other entities could change their flows (or have them
affected by passing phenemenom) enough to exist in our space-time (or
perhaps indirectly control something in our "reality" via indirect means). 
Dabbling in magic might also call such entities (since it works by
generating unusual frequencies of ether).  Furthermore, as the human mind
is thought to have some "hidden factor" responsible for the chaotic output
of brainwaves, it is almo st likely that we are sensitive to forces we
don't have empirical proof of yet. 

What if the so called astral world is just the mind aligning itself to a
slightly different ether frequency band?  It would make sense, after all
we are subconciously sensetive to many things (ex: some ultrasonic
frequencies which are inaudible but cause marked irratation and rage, or
subliminal technologies). 
	      

---------------------------------------------------------------------------


From: rackbran@ix.netcom.com(Steven Charles Houser)
Newsgroups: alt.magick
Subject: re: Scientific Evidence of Magick
Date: 30 Jul 1996 07:11:14 GMT


I would first like to say that I am very pleased with the responses to my
earlier post.  I found, without exception, that all the posts were
well-written and showed an articulateness of thought.  I was especially
glad to see so many people keeping an open mind and entertaining a theory
that certainly seems unusual.  This kind of open-mindness is hard to find
in others of my profession. 

There were several (very rational and understandable) concerns that were
brought up in this thread, so I wish to address them.  The first is the
feasibility of ether.  Several emails and posts mentioned the
Michelson-Morley experiment and/or the disproving of ether as a medium for
light.  For all of you unfamiliar with the experiment in question I shall
attempt to give a short summary... 

The Michaelson-Morley experiment (conducted in 1887) was designed to
measure the motion of earth through aether (keep in mind this was a
different ether than that mentioned in ethereal mechanics.  It was the
aether postulated by Huygen as the reason that light exhibits wavelike
characteristics.  Henceforth I will refer to it as classical ether, to
distinquish it from that postulated by Gassendi, Gauss and others [which I
shall call modern ether]).  The experiment used a Michaelson
interferometer (a device which splits a beam of light and sends the two
resultants off along seperate paths.  Later it recombines them, resulting
in a fringe pattern caused by interference of the two beams of light. 
This technique and apparatus were used for high precision measurements of
the wavelength of light) in order to measure this motion.  Since resultant
beams traveled in different paths, if one of those paths were aligned in
the direction of the orbital velocity of the earth, the "medium" of that
beam would have an imparted velocity (by the laws of inertia).  Thus
siince the medium of the beam was traveling faster, so necessarily would
the propagation of that medium (i.e. the beam).  Assuming the other path
was aligned in a direction in which the medium was not moving, the
recombination of the light would result in an easily observed fringe
pattern.  The two experimenters were expecting a fringe difference of
four-tenths, unfortuantely the result was that the two beams were
traveling at exactly the same speed. 

This negative result baffled physicists for years, until Einstein
postulated that the speed of light is exactly the same in all inertial
frames of reference (a very strange concept that results in the idea that
space and time can dilate and contract).  Classical ether was also
disproven (it would thus have to violate the physical principle of
inertia, amoung other things). 

Now of course we must ask the question, how can ethereal mechanics exist
if ether has been disproved?  The answer lies in the differences in
classical (or luminous) ether and modern ether.  Classical ether exists as
a SEPERATE and DISTINCT material from conventional matter.  Even though it
is distinct, and unobservable, it is assumed that it has characteristics
of conventional matter (i.e. inertial and gravitational mass, medium
properties etc).  Its theroitical existance was mainly the result of
measurements that demonstrated light's wavelike properties (waves,
classically, are propagations through mediums, the early physicists felt
that if it was a wave it must have some kind of medium). The concept of
modern ether, by contrast, asserts that ALL matter is essentially made up
of propagations in this medium.  Rather then acting as a co-existing
material, modern either is the fundamental construction of matter. 

What exactly are the implications?  If we assume that all matter is merely
an ether flow (or turbulence) then we must confess that our PERCEPTIONS
are based not on observation of the ether but rather, on its effects
(turbulences).  Given this, light will APPEAR to have no medium because it
is not traveling via an ether flow (what we concieve of matter), it is
traveling via ether itself.  Note also that the implication also points to
the ideas... 

1) That light and other forms of energy are propagations in ether.  Since
we have claimed that matter is as well, this would imply matter and energy
are directly related and transformable.  A fact discovered with the
popular equation, E=m0c^2 a computation of the rest energy of mass. 

2) That matter at a minute level should act much the same as light does
given identical circumstances.  The double slit diffraction of an electron
demonstrated that not only does light act as both a particle and a wave,
so does matter.  This and the creation of the DeBroglie wavelength (an
explaination of matter in wave language), demonstrated that this statement
is indeed true. 

3) That a seperate hidden matter is not responsible for the propagation of
light.  In other words light, is not like a sound wave... it does not go
through what we would deem a material medium.  Rather it travels through a
medium with no descernable material characteristics (namely ether).  Thus
modern ether, strangely enough, DISPROVES the existance of classical
ether. 

These implications were proven much later using other what we now know as
modern physics. 


---------------------------------------------------------------------------


From: rackbran@ix.netcom.com(Steven Charles Houser)
Newsgroups: alt.magick
Subject: re: Scientific Evidence of Magick
Date: 30 Jul 1996 07:15:45 GMT


Another concern mentioned was that of Occam's Razor.  Essentially this is
the scientific prinicple that the best explaination to any phenemona is
the simplest one that fits the facts in evidence.  I have no argument to
this standard whatsoever.  But let us directly point to the central theme
of the principle.  The simplest explaination that fits the FACTS.  This is
important.  What we accept as facts alter what our model has to account
for, as well as the invalidity of any other alturnative definition we
might arrive at. 

Consider for example, the time of Newton, when classical physics was being
created.  If we were to suggest at this time theories such as
relativistic, or quantum mechanical physics, these ideas would be
summarily dismissed.  Even though both things would describe classical
physics just as well by concidering them special cases, (Physics has a
criteria called the correspondance principle.  This principle states that
all new physics must yield the exact same results as earlier established
theories, at least as a special case.) they would be concidered too
complex to be allowed to stand as an explaination.  Why?  Because they fit
facts that don't exist yet.  This causes them to predict phenemona that
would be deemed unfeasible to the academic society.  The notion of
non-objective space-time, an "ultimate" speed that cannot be exceeded, and
especially the idea that the observer changes measurements SIMPLY by
observing, all of these would be considered outlandish. 

With that said, let us consider magick.  Let us say that we live in an
ideal world of science in which no politics among scientists exist (I
assure you that this is truly fantasy).  Everyone has perfect objectivity
towards all phenemona or possible phenemona, and there is no bias towards
any experiment. 

If we don't accept the existance of magick, it will not exist as a
phenemona that must be included in any model of reality we choose to
create.  In fact making allowances for it would make a given theory
controversial at best.  Science functions to solve problems, if a
logically consistant theory is the only one which can solve this problem,
it will accept both the theory and its implications.  Obviously if it
can't find or won't accept a problem, it will consider any theory which
describes old phenemona and makes different implications to be invalid. 
Many things in magick also require the observer to be at least some kind
of participant in order to fully percieve the causality-effect ( because
of the subtilty of many forms of magick, there usually does not exist a
clear and direct connection in events to a neutral observer).  This yeilds
unsual problems, anyone who experiences magick could be thought to be
biassed on the subject.  Hence even in an ideal world, magick and any
theories about it can be rejected by fundamental assumption that it
doesn't exist. 

Now if we accept magick as something that obeys consistant rules, and upon
which effects are created, we are forced to claim that magick and its
behavior MUST be part of the physics of the universe.  Since the current
model of physics doesn't address these concerns (and has problems of its
own), we must seek a new model that not only explains the existance of
magick, but also corresponds to the earlier framework (i.e. obeys the
correspondance principle).  I don't wish to make the sweeping claim that
ethereal mechanics must be that theory, I only wish to point out how
remarkably consistant it is with both paradigms.  If anyone could email me
any similarities or contrasts between this form of mechanics (either based
on personal experience or abstract knowledge) and general magick, I would
appreciate it. 
