INCUNABULA 2.5

Advances in Skin Science: Quantum Tantra
An Interview with Nick Herbert
by Joseph Matheny

"It's always gooiest before it solidifies"-_Beverly's Ovation_
Beverly Rubik Ph.d

"Quantum Tantra is not just another way to get high using common objects
you can find around the house...Caution:Practising Q.T. before you
understand Bell's Theorem of interconnectveness is like walking into the
Amazon jungle without a map."- _Alternate Dimensions_. Jabir ibn Hayyan


Journal entry:

October 13,1992

I finally get a line on INCUNABULA.Following a lead from a culture-jamming
club in San Francisco (MediaKaos 415-437-8741), I arrive in the small New
Jersey town of Ong's Hat. The address that I have for INCUNABULA is a P.O.
Box. The local postmaster/general store operator was very helpful. Alomost
too helpful! He told me that Cranston and INCUNABULA books had fled the
area one night about a month ago. I gained acess to Cranston's P.O. Box
key while the owner had his back turned and returned later to examine the
contents. All I found inside were overdraft notices from his bank and some
solicitations from a church og geniuses in Dallas, Texas or some such
nonesense. Another dead end. 

October 14, 1992

I arrive in New York City, get a room, restock supplies and think. I call
New Jersey information to get the phone number for the Ong's Hat general
store and post office so I can ask the postmaster a few more questions. I
am told by the inbred boob on the other end of the line that there is no
such town listed in New Jersey, and after a long and heated debate, we
terminate the phone call by mutaually insulting eah other's gene pool.
God, I hate the phone company. 

October 16, 1992

Two days (and two bottles of Johnny Walker Black Label) later, I finally
get lead on one of the most intriguing authors listed in the INCUNABULA
catalogue, Nick Herbert, author of
_Quantum_Reality_,_Faster_Than_Light:_Superluminal_Loopholes_in_Physics,
and of course, the legendary_Alternate_Dimensions_. Herbert was a former
SDI scientist turned renegade researcher. His past areas of renegade
research involved pleasure dome technologies, Quantum Tantra (the Egg Yoke
method), Time and Dimensional travel theories, and gelatinous substances.
I'll give you a little background on Alternate Dimensions (A.D.). It was
written in 1989 by Herbert, but was suppressed by the publisher, Harper &
Row, for unexplained reasons in 1990 (see INCUNABULA & INCUNABULA 3).
INCUNABULA was offering bound, uncorrected galley copies for $100.00 each,
or at least they were, until Cranston dissapeared with the whole
kit-n-kaboodle. In A.D., it seems that Herbert gave away the inner secrets
of a Tantric-dimensional travel cult based in northern California. Using
techniques that combined Herbert's own theory of Quantum Tantra, and
hardware technology, consisting of an egg- shaped craft of some sort,
members of the cult were able to penetrate into other dimensions. There
were also intense visualization techniques,and Tantric-Egg-Yoke postures
involved, but the Xerox copy I had purchased from MediaKaos seemed to be
missing some of the key technical portions. 

Herbert was now hiding out in the backwater town of Boulder Creek, CA,
deep in the heart of the Santa Cruz mountains. I hopped aboard a plane to
San Jose, and drove a rental car up to Boulder Creek. About a mile away
from Herbert's farm house, I called him on my celluar phone.Surprisingly
enough, Herbert was very cordial, and agreed to meet me in town for lunch
and conversation. He suggested Adelita's Mexican Cantina, gave me
directions, and promised to meet me there in an hour. I drove into town
and went over my notes while I waited. About an hour later, Dr.Herbert
appeared in the parking lot driving a electric Stutz Bearcat kit car. I
recognized him instantly from his jacket photos, even with the recently
aqquired beard. Was he attempting to change his appearance? Was he
preparing to flee, like Cranston had 30 days ago? I casually reached into
my jacket and activated my pocket recorder. I waved him over to my table,
and after shaking hands we settled down to a lunch of Dos Equis and
Gorditas. "Okay" I said, after some pleasantries about the weather, "let's
start with the obvious question: What is Quantum Tantra?" "Well,
psychology has used a lot of classic metaphors to explain the mind, like
the hydraulic metaphor of urges bulding up, an even when repressed,
they'll find some way to spurt out to the surface. We're told that
releasing your repressions will relieve the pressure, and you'll become
healthy.That's a very classical metaphor. Now we have this marvelous new
way of thinking called quantum mechanics, and it seems right to use these
metaphors to explain human behavior. So, what's the most interesting human
behavior of all? Sexual, of course. That's the idea, to use quantum
mechanical metaphors to explore sexuality, to look at it through the lens
of quantum physics. I would consider Q.T. successful if we could find new
things to do that never would have been thought, of using the old
metaphors. I mean, of course, pleasant things. (laughter). The core idea
of Q.T. stems from Heisenberg's statement that "atoms are not things." So,
Q.T. naturally extrapolated that statement into "well than people are not
things, either." People are not things in the same way that atoms are not
things." "What are things?" I asked "Things are entities that have
attributes, whether you look at them or not. They're big, they're solid
and such. You can list their attributes. Non- things, or Quantum objects,
like atoms or molecules, don't have attributes. They are basically
clusters of oscillating possibilities, the possibilities not even being
well-defined. It might reward us to look that way at people, as
oscillating possibilities." He took a long draw off his Dos Equis, and
signaled the waiter for another. "So, try and think of what the essence of
quantum theory is," he continued, "Three adjectives:Randomness,
thinglessness, and interconectiveness. Randomness I associate with the
spontaneity that is within people. Uncertainty is the very essence of
romance. It's what you don't know that intrigues you." "Now, thinglessness
is even more renunciatory'" he went on. "The notion of treating people
like possibilities rather than fixed structures is a healthy one, I
think." "Interconnectiveness is the most fantastic feature of Q.T. Things
are connected in the quantum world in such a way that only did we not
think of it before the discovery of quantum mechanics, but I don't think
we could have thought this way at all. It's so strange. The terrestrial
belief system that comes the closest to quantum connectiveness is VooDoo."
"Sympathetic magick?" I queried. This was getting good. "Yes, sympathetic
magick," he replied. "Of course, the VooDoo conception is naive in
comparision to Q.T.'s connectiveness. In VooDoo, you do something like
burn someone's hair to give them a headache. The Quantum connection isn't
that crude. It has more to do with timing. In the Quantum world, you burn
someone's hair, and maybe they miss an appointment. The Newtonian worl
view emphasized control over the world, whereas, the Quantum world view
doesn't emphasize control so much as timing. You could say that the
Newtonian view emaphasized force, where the Quantum world emphasizes
finesse." "One analogy is ordinary, steerable dish radar versus phased
array antennae. Steerable dish physically moves the whole antenna
structure. In the phased array antennae, you have a whole array that are
all fixed. None of them move, but by changing the timing on these
antennae, you get a virtual antenna that's pointed in any direction.
That's an example of finesse, rather than force. Quantum connection is
like that. It is set up like VooDoo by having something that the other
person has interacted with, some sympathetic object." "But what does this
have to o with sex?" I asked. Herbert was quick to answer. "I'm getting to
that. In Q.T., the tantra part has to do with sex as well as religion.
Every religion has their symbol. The Christians have the cross, Islam has
the crescent and star, the Pagans have the pentagram, the wheel for
Buddhism, and so forth. Q.T. has it's symbols, also. One of them is this
fork." He picked up a salsa-encrusted fork, and stared at it rapturously.
"It reminds us to see the world as possibilities," he continued, "In the
Newtonian world, starting from now, only one thing could happen.Q.T. sees
the future as open possibilities, like the tines of this fork. Actually,
if this fork were fuzzy, like Man Ray's fuzzy cup and spoon..." I was
beginning to understand. That or the Dos Equis was kicking in. I felt
lightheaded. "So the borders would not quite be defined..." I replied.
"Yes," he said, eyes twinkling in the candlelight. "The possibilities are
defined only by your intentions, by how you construe the moment. Quantum
possibilities are not quite as defined as dice possibilities, even. With a
die, only one of six numbers will come up, whereas with Quantum
possibilities, it depends on how you look at the moment, and that again,
is part of thinglessness. All of these elements have resonances in popular
literature. Like the talk of the inexplicable chemistry that occurs
between two people, or this notion of 'it's bigger than both of us'. The
type of connectivity that's possible in quantum theory allows two
connected entities to be in indefinite states , but allows the couple
itself to be in a definite state! The mathematics on this are clear. As
Heisenberg said, 'quantum theory has changed our way of thinking
completely,' and it's changed in such a way that it didn't dissolve into
some unclear, fuzzy fog, but into this absolute clarity of a new
mathematics. Now the mathematics describe the fog in a very precise way.
So, it's this kind of very precise unclarity." "You're talking like a lot
of mystics I know!" I scoffed. He replied laughing, "Except, this is found
in ordinary physics! This is stuff that was discovered 75 years ago, it's
not new stuff at all. It's only now beginning to permeate popularculture.
So, we have this system where each member of the pair, say, a man and a
woman, or a man and a man, or a woman and a woman, or whatever, are
defined. They've gotten themselves into a state where their
individualities are not as clear, but the couple itself as an entity, s
better defined than the individual members of the set. We use symbols,
like the fork, to remind ourselves of these things, because the human mind
is not yet used to thinking in parallels." "Our data rat is miniscule,
compared to say, television data rates equivalent to megabits per second,
or telephones, which are equivalent to thousands of kilobits per second.
Morse code is about 10 bits per second, and that's pretty close to our
attention rate! I mean, when we're not on robot, when we do come to
attention, we don't bring much to this moment in terms of quantity. It's
been estimated at about 16 bits a second. So, people need simple graphic
symbols, like the fork, or the cross, or the crescent, to remind
thenselves that they're Moslems, or whatever. So, one symbol I've invented
to epitomize Randomness, Thinglessness and Interconnectiveness is the
trinity of White, Hot and Sticky. White corresponds to Thinglessness, Hot
to Randomness, and Sticky to Interconnectiveness. By white, I mean like
white light, all the colors together, all human sexual potentials.
Thinglessness is wrought with possibilities. As David Finklestein, the
inventor of quantum logic said, ' We are all white light, in the sense
that we are all possibilities.' Hot has to do with newness, spontaneity
that we can bring to the moment to remind us that the moment can be ever
new. That's a hard thing to live up to, sexually, and otherwise. Sticky,
of course, typifies the new kind connectiveness. A metaphor for achieving
stickieness, are objects that you break in two, and each partner keeps one
half. The fracture is unique, that I will only match one other person in
the whole world! Quantum objects help to enhance this two- person white,
hot, sticky state. And music is the connection in this technology." "Why
music?" I asked. "Because, these possibilities are vibratory." he
answered. 'In the physical world, every atom, or possibility is vibrating
at at certain frequency. The higher the energy level, the higher the
frequency or pitch of the vibrations. We can't hear, smell, see, or taste
any of these vibrations except indirectly. I'm doing more research with
solid state technology, sound sequences." "Ok, now what about
_Alternate_Dimensions_, the egg craft, the travel cults, Tantric-Yoke
techniques, I mean, what about all this stuff!" I finally blurted, unable
to hold back any longer. "Young man, I have no idea what you're talking
about. All I can say is there are some questions that you should not ask
directly, and some answers that may come as a result of finese over force.
This interview is now concluded." 

(See INCUNABULA 3, for what followed)

More info on INCUNABULA available from gopher.well.com
INCUNABULA
INCUNABULA 2
INCUNABULA 3
.
