T.O.P.Y is.....

No matter how often we stress that thee Temple seeks to create a sense ov 
fierce individuality, that it is for each Individual to redefine and redesign 
TOPY within themselves to meet their own needs, thee questions still arise: 
What is TOPY? What is thee Psychick Cross? What is thee significance ov 23? 
It seems that there is still a need, or at least a belief that such things should 
be cast in black and white, for a clear, concise description ov exactly how 
TOPY should be viewed, ov how its signs and symbols should be interpreted. 
Not that such questions can be answered, certainly not in a way that would 
remain specific enough to satisfy thee enquiring, yet broad enough to remain 
true to thee multitude ov Individuals who make up thee Temple. As we have 
said before, and no doubt will say again, TOPY exists to promote a system ov 
functional, demystified magick, utilising both pagan and modern techniques. 
It is a process ov individual and collective experimentation and research 
with no finite answers, dogmas or unchallengeable truths. It is for each to 
discover his or her own understanding ov thee questions that suggest 
themselves, and through that voyage ov discovery to find their personal and 
true identity, thee True Will. To set down on paper pre-packaged responses 
would be to deny thee opportunity for self-expression, to defeat thee 
purpose for which we are all striving. Worse than this, it would take away 
thee fun, thee simple joy ov finding things out for ourselves.

Thee following texts are drawn from a variety ov sources, but all deal with 
thee most common questions that are asked. Some are written by 
Individuals with considerable experience ov TOPY methods, others by those 
who are new to thee Temple. Some are taken from letters clarifying ideas or 
criticising TOPY, others from more general places. We have taken much from 
thee many responses we have had to thee Skills Access form all Temple 
Individuals are asked to complete. Thee views expressed are entirely those 
ov thee individual authors. They have been edited to fit into thee structure 
ov this booklet, but in all cases we have taken care not to distort what has 
been said, or to interpret what we as individuals may find unclear. This is 
thee Temple talking to thee Temple - a communion and communication ov 
Individuals to Individuals.

Before we go further, it should be remembered that people are attracted to 
TOPY for many different reasons, that there is nothing consistent, nothing to 
categorise. There are those who claim to know nothing, and those who 
presume to know it all. This changes in time, as thee Temple draws out 
strengths and eliminates weaknesses.

Everyone, without exception, who gets in touch with thee Temple is urged to 
demonstrate their interest by setting out their own thoughts and ideas, a 
first step in showing a commitment to what thee Temple stands for. We are 
pleased that those who think they know little are at least as able to respond 
as those with greater experience. There is no "right response", and no shame 
in honesty. We thank all those who have contributed to thee publication ov 
this booklet, and urge everyone who reads it to follow their lead. As 
information flows in, so we will ensure that it flows out. That is thee 
meaning ov Feedback, a continuity ov expression flowing both in and out, 
creating a new understanding, a new sound, a new dimension.

T.O.P.Y. is action against dissatisfaction
in a society that is passive not peaceful
(aiming for the throat)


From the Institute Of Positive Pagan Nihilism
to the passionate process that enfolds
(but does not control)
there is hope through energy.


Energies directed and multiplied,
energies conformed then deformed
energies facilitating psychick enemas.
To purge and purify,
to pain and putrefy.


To communicate is to cure.


-----------------------------------------   

Thee Temple ov Psychick Youth is a collective body ov Individuals, all 
working together towards a common goal. It is about thinking deeply about 
oneself, questioning one's role in a so-called free society.

Man is essentially a robot: he has set programmes imposed on his life, even 
before he is born. Whatever Man does he should do with passion. He should 
rise above thee imposed trappings ov society. Involvement with thee Temple 
is purely active and positive, thee bottom line being: "I don't want to lead a 
pointless existence, following and accepting thee indoctrination ov a 
worthless society.

With Man's progress, our self-destructive nature drives us all further from 
our true selves. In thee Temple we are a group ov people trying to halt this 
process by turning into ourselves and helping others to accomplish thee 
same. From birth, a person is conditioned to conform to thee accepted laws 
and morals ov thee society in which they find themselves - each institution 
and aspect ov our culture is intertwined with guilt and fears in order to push 
us on to thee acceptable path. Society is thus so easily capable ov moulding 
one into a flat, one-dimensional person (thee socially acceptable yet 
controlled person). TOPY goes to thee root ov thee problem, challenging us to 
honestly reveal our innermost needs, expectations and desires, ov bringing 
them to consciousness in the hope ov breaking society's Chain ov Control.

Involvement with TOPY can stem from an interest in investigating thee 
potentialities ov thee brain: knowledge that has been massively suppressed 
by those in Power. It includes making known information on both a 
political/conspiracy level, and on thee level ov an Individual's control over 
their own life. We have been taught to view thee State as a crutch to lean on, 
to fill our heads with pre-packaged ideologies that avoid thee need for us to 
think for ourselves and which create a society ov dead, bored, apathetic 
people. TOPY counters this by fighting conditioning and by allowing thee 
individual's true selves to come through - at thee same time there is 
action/research to demonstrate how all pervasive thee "spectacular" society 
is. By working together we can pool research, theories and actions: this way 
forward avoids needless duplication and, where necessary, provides allies 
and support for action. Much ov thee control mechanism ov society is based 
on guilt about/around sex, it being easier to control a sexually repressed 
person who thus always has a weak spot for thee Servants ov Power to 
press. For this reason, thee Temple strives to destroy thee conditioning ov 
guilt that lies deep in thee mind and which chains it to a mundane existence. 
Through thee process ov freed (and free) love/sexuality thee mind can be 
focused and channelled against all ov Power's conditioning mechanisms. 

Thee tools ov thee Temple are first and foremost those which lay us open to 
thee reality ov life in permanent flux. Many techniques can be used: trance 
inducing music, chanting, dancing - these can all help strip down our outer 
mundane shell, exposing our inner core to thee free play ov creative forces. 
Thee method most favoured by thee Temple (because it is surrounded by 
thee most imposed guilt, fear and limitation) is thee unashamed exploration 
ov sexuality. Fundamental to thee workings ov thee Temple is thee belief 
that great psychic force/energy is released at thee point ov orgasm and that 
this, if channelled, can effectively "make those things happen" which will 
bring you closer to your ideal self.

This technique, and many more, can be found within thee many and varied 
spiritual/magickal traditions ov thee world. It is thee aim ov thee Temple, 
through practical experimentation, to extract thee core ov truth running 
through all, and thus demystified to present a working formula for any 
Individual courageous and compassionate enough to strike against dogma, 
habit, guilt, fear and all that weighs on thee spirit; to strike against flat 
monotony under all its titles, and to step into a magickal perception ov thee 
world.

TOPY is a lifeline ov magickal people aiming to change society for thee better 
through thee magickal transformation ov Individuals, and by helping people 
to understand thee power and potency ov their sexuality. A common mistake 
people make is that they think that TOPY is just another fanatical religious 
organisation. They hear thee name "Thee Temple Ov Psyckick Youth" and 
automatically assume its philosophy will be an unquestioning dogma for thee 
masses. (Proving ov course that thee society-controlled mass mind simply 
projects its crippled reality on to those who seek to challenge thee orthodoxy 
ov thee moment.) However, thee difference between TOPY and other groups 
is that we create an environment in which Individuals have no choice but to 
find their own answers in order to improve themselves. Thee emphasis is 
very much on individual exploration. TOPY gives people hints and pointers, 
and whereas other organisations may make it easy for people seeking to find 
"answers", TOPY stresses that it is up to thee Individual's personal efforts for 
anything to be gained. And it is a two-way process: as thee Individual learns 
things from involvement with thee Temple, so thee Temple as a wider body 
learns from thee Individual.

There are elements ov truth in all schools ov thought, but not one single 
school can be thee "most correct" (no monopoly on knowledge!). What is 
needed is to take thee parts from all - those aspects that seem thee most 
logical and honest - and to discard that which perhaps reeks ov theatricals; 
understanding thee use ov rituals, as did thee so-called "ignorant" Indians ov 
America before thee evil Christian soiled their pure mind (pure in that they 
understood thee deeper reality that is thee essence ov magick). Many races 
and cultures ov thee world have stumbled across truths in their religions. 
We should make use ov these and develop our own minds in all possible 
ways.

Ov every organisation, TOPY comes closer than any to thee ideal ov freedom. 
All areas ov life, especially those most taken for granted as being correct and 
right, are called into question. Questions open up possibilities ov thought and 
action, all in thee pursuit ov a sublime happiness. Not only does this intense 
questioning stimulate life, but it helps us affirm or reaffirm ideas and 
behaviours. TOPY allows people more confidence and comfort - hence more 
pleasure with themselves - in their own environment. Comfort is not 
laziness. TOPY further guarantees freedom (something that no other social 
arrangement can do, except that which evolves between very close friends) 
by not only tolerating differences in thoughts and actions, but by 
encouraging natural, intrinsic differences; that is, TOPY recognises thee inate 
potential godliness ov being; and its methods, its Psychick Cross, its 23, its 
Ov, can all help foster thee beauty ov each Being.

Thee Temple is a creative organisation, a place to share and learn. Creativity 
needs to be freed. Time waits for no-one. We live once, so we take the 
opportunity: Participation.


Is thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth a cult?

Yes, a non-existent one in that it exists as a cult only for those who are 
uninformed and uninvolved. Thee Temple gives those involved positive 
ammunition in thee war to relcaim ourselves, our world, our time, our love, 
thee truth. To disconnect thee cables ov control.

Thee Temple az a non-organisation recognises thee reality ov Individuals. 
Thee power ov Individuals focused by choice to some common points. We, as 
multi-dimensional peoples live yes and no; colours, not black and 
white/either-or. There are more than two choices! Religion, history, 
psychology, magick: integrated for individual use. Sucksessors? To thee 
Surrealists and thee Hippies? Radical interest in political and spiritual.

Sexuality as focus. Ov Power. Subconscious guns. Thee orgazm as divine 
messenger. No denial ov sense-based vision. We are free! Let us stand up to 
see it through thee veil ov control.

Many people ov small mind and spirit try to deny thee Temple its right ov 
existence. They are so completely disillusioned and hopeless that they 
demand we all be as miserable as they are. They call us crazy, power 
hungry, ego-maniacs, perverse, money-hungry, non-sensical freaks.

O.K. Crazy? To change thee world we live in, yes.
Power hungry? For power over our own lives and destiny.
Ego-maniacs? Yes, if as usual their definition ov an ego-maniac is someone 
who wants to achieve, grow, change and progress. Yes - WE DO THINGS!
Perverse? Yes, and proud. Thee rational ov thee world is no rationale.
Sense? Right? Normal?
Whose sense? Whose right? Whose normal? No sense makes sense. Our 
sexuality is our own. If you don't like it, leave it.
Money hungry? Sure. Money is but a way to get things done. Not thee only 
way, but a way.
Freaks? Oh yes! No, we do not fit in, we never fit in, and we choose it that 
way, thank you. Fashion, morals, duty: they are yours not ours. YOU keep 
them. A freak is someone with individual motivation, separate from thee 
dictates ov past, present and future.

Thee Temple is not for all. In this time/space or ever.

WE WERE. WE ARE. WE WILL BE. WE ARE AZ WE ARE. AZ WE ARE. WE ARE 
AZ WE AZ ARE WE. WE AZ ARE. WE AZ WE. WE AZ WE ARE. WE ARE AZ WE 
ARE. AN ETERNAL L-OV-E IN


TOPY is a collaboration ov Individuals. We fight all forms ov restriction to 
realise thee potential ov thee human brain through a system ov pagan 
Magick. It exists devoid ov dogma, be it political or religious. Information is 
shared amongst those involved, not in order to be treated as instruction but 
rather as a means to promote participation, discipline and contribution to an 
ideal as opposed to self-ambition. Thee recognition that only truth counts. 
Rituals (sigils) are employed as a means ov discovering one's true psyche, 
desires (and their realisation), integrating thee conscious and subconscious as 
a way to produce a spiritually whole person as opposed to a fragmented 
shell.

TOPY attempts to wake people up to thee fact that they are controlled, 
socially programmed to suit those with an interest in control, and that guilt 
and fear are weapons employed to suppress natural advancement. 
Preconceptions must be swept aside and a de-programming occur until 
fearless and guiltless sexuality is mastered. Thee Temple embraces suitable 
forms ov technology to support its aims for collective advancement. Methods 
ov information access include PTV recordings, booklists, video 
deprogramming transmissions. These are all designed to surprise, even 
shock, but with a view to expansion, thee removal ov limitation.

***********************

It is difficult to understand the infinite and the inexpressible contained, 
albeit hidden controlled and repressed, in much ov the grey parade that is 
called life, even within one's own mind; but to communicate an idea that is 
beyond your own ego to another ego is almost impossible. The closest things 
to transmitting such ideas are Zen Parables, or Koans, such as what is the 
sound of one hand clapping, or what is enlightened Buddha being answered 
by being hit over the head with a brick. The Temple represents colour, but 
colour has to be seen, not intellectually analysed.

I justify my involvement with the Temple by saying, just as the present 
world needs the Temple (love being such a rare bird) I feel the need to help 
and be part ov something that represents evolution and a better future. I 
personally have lost "friends" because ov their inability to perceive what the 
Temple means (people conditioned by shit... who see in their little egos the 
wearing ov a PTV badge as evidence ov  a brainwashed moonie-type cult. 
How can I be in a cult when I know only one individual even slightly 
connected with the Temple?; yet people whose only knowledge ov the 
Temple - love, the future, colour, magick as sublime poetry - is gleaned from 
those who wish to climb up the intestines ov the machine ov Babylon by 
slagging the Temple off, presume to know better). Magick defends itself, but 
at times the gentleness I see in the Temple makes it a sitting duck for the 
projection ov complexes ov the cynical, bitter and controlled. The Temple's 
crusade to free the individual from control so s/he can grow focuses on 
sexuality because it's the only thing everybody is involved with at some 
point in their passage from birth to death, in whatever form. This is what 
scares the repressed, the puritanical who seem intent on punishing a new 
generation for the brief but vital progress that took place in the 60s. There is 
no Temple sexuality: its sexuality is mine, yours, or that ov any other 
individual involved. There is fuck all wrong with sex despite the macho-men 
and unbelievable creations ov the media and the flags ov restriction put up 
by both the political left and the right (all nasty oppressive illusions, not 
only are all cliches true, but all paradox).

The methods ov the Temple are vital because ov the appreciation ov the 
functional uses ov technology, the Magick ov the 1980s is filed on computer, 
photographed and taped, rather like the tools ov control. As Peter the Great 
ov Russia said: "our enemies will teach us how to beat them." The Cross is a 
symbol. Like all symbols it helps communicate an idea quickly and focuses 
the will. It is potent and harmless and very powerful. The nuber 23 is a bit 
ov a situationist prank as nothing freaks out the flat people as this mystic 
number. 

The Temple = psychedelic + discipline

Individuals controlling their own minds themselves, by opening up.

***********************

TOPY WITHOUT TEARS

Most people, when they come into contact with TOPY, will do so via Psychic 
TV. Whilst being a useful expression of and filter for TOPY, this has been the 
cause of misunderstanding of what TOPY is about, why it has to be here.

Firstly, it's important to say that TOPY is emphatically not a fan club for PTV 
- not a spin-off. While PTV are there for everyone to see, access without 
thought, as it were, TOPY is something else - it "gives" to the amount you 
"push". It lies behind, but is not contained by, PTV.

This much should be obvious. It is easier to say what TOPY isn't than to say 
what it is.

Basically, TOPY as a "system" is an expression of the ideas and methods of all 
the individuals involved. But TOPY "in itself" is harder to define - it is the 
idealised Hidden Instrument of Evolution - the "organum occultus". The 
hidden instrument is magickal- a synergetic interaction of certain powers of 
the brain. It has no "direction". Its centre is everywhere. Thus it cannot be 
"possessed". The hidden instrument is the means by which inner potential 
"happens".

TOPY is about setting change into motion NOW. It's about questioning 
authority NOW. It's about releasing the social function of subjectivity from 
the doghouse. Letting the dog roam free.

All this is now. TOPY has arrived as an urgent force to overcome the endless 
deferral of all this - the realisation of our dreams.

Our resource - our sincerity.

It is a synchronistic vector - the "dis-ease" being the dream of social and 
individual transformatin - of which we continually remind ourselves, and 
struggle to realise, in our rituals, our work.

TOPY is an expanding system of caring and action - communication without 
limit - MUTUALITY. We are aware that language alone does not suffice. Too 
many systems expand in direct proportion to their insistence on the dogma 
of their WORD. TOPY's method is to cut up the word, cut up behaviour - to 
find meaning beyond the parameters of Control. To re-connect at the source 
- our "spirit".

Therefore, it is not a religion, not a cult. We have no use for gods, devils, 
"instruction". We have nothing to fall back on but that which is in us. 
Everything we see is ourselves. TOPY is, in the best sense of the word, a 
movement. The movement, the process, being continual and at various levels 
simultaneously - spotting the lies, the disjunction between socialised "givens" 
and our dreams, our real potential - deciding to commit oneself to re-
connecting with one's potential - and doing. We have many "people" within 
each one of us - we want them all.

This is expressed in our ritual and all our manifestations. Our network - our 
mutual experience and searching of TOPY. 

The maturity of man/woman - that means to have reacquired the 
seriousness that one had as a child at play. (Nietzsche)

Vide infra (SSOTBME)

As explained at some length in the Grey Book, the Temple's initial and root 
method is the recognition and utilisation of our true sexuality - the 
invocation of primal sexual energies latent in the subconscious. The concept 
of "sexual energy" is, for the Temple, interchangeable with "psychic energy". 
Sex is the medium for magick - the frequency of truth. The sigil is its 
practice, the keystone.

...the significance of sexuality must be extended to embrace Reality, or that 
which endures after all else fades... (Kenneth Grant)

In a very real way our sexuality is interactive with our behaviour as a 
whole. With the Temple Method we cut up traditional sexual behaviour in 
order to release the New Sexuality - new because it is everchanging, ever 
regenerating. Thus liberating our real sexuality (everybody - every man and 
woman is  a man and woman), we liberate our behaviour away from Control. 
We seek to deprogramme ourselves from harmful internalised alienating 
stereotypes. "Control begins with sexuality" (TOPY). We seek to reacquire the 
seriousness and curiosity that we had as children, to observe and act without 
guilt/fear. If there is one simple description of TOPY, it is that every 
involved Individual recognises the need to overcome GUILT and FEAR of 
DARING TO BE. We "see below" in order to "rise up".

New sexuality - ever youthful.

***********************

Jung saw symbols as "libido analogues", capable of transforming energy. A 
representation channels libido (psychic/sexual energy) into new form - 
invokes ever renewed potential. Symbols in themselves represent NO 
SEPARATION. That is, the Psychic cross is a total synthesis of all we think of 
and mean by the Temple. For express purposes, and certain time-zones, 
some of its components can be isolated, but ultimately there is no separation. 
It exists of itself: the characteristic of all living symbols.

Because the Psychick Cross has many "personalities", a multiplicity of 
explanations, it is an ideal symbol for TOPY. Various significances have been 
pointed our: the single vertical line as the Individual, bottom horizontal as 
Past, middle horizontal as Present, top as Future. The Cross of Jesus and the 
inverted Cross of Satan combined. A television aerial. The alchemical symbol 
"very poisonous". 

"We didn't choose it so much as the symbol chose us." A symbol of 
disenchantment, uncertainty and challenge/change.

The point of all this is that, like a true Individual, it cannot be pinned down.

Neither - Neither.

The Psychick Cross also incorporates the 23 mythology. The number 23 is 
total neither-neither territory (Austin Osman Spare's mindfuck technique - 
comparing opposites separate, together, then absent).

(But of course it isn't. It is just a number like any other, 22 before it, 24 
after, surely?) Except that 23, for us, seems to behave very strangely. It has 
become a snake in the grass of reason. Thus the exception; for the Temple 
always the exception. The Individual. Every man and woman is a 23.

"A presence, neither good luck or bad luck, it seemed to have some sort of 
control over its appearance." Like the Psychick Cross, 23 has been isolated to 
symbolise certain concepts, random chance, Crowley's GET OUT, Burroughs' 
total cut-up, Robert Anton Wilson's total paranoia symbol. Its "common" (!) 
significance is its provocativeness, its individuality, however one wishes to 
depict it. So, OK, you have your cynicism, you may remain unconvinced, may 
not recognise TOPY, you see everywhere human weakness and self-interest -
but the next step is to realise that cynicism is not a total answer, that the 
facade/shell of ego/"cool"/style can, and must be, discarded before we grow 
once more and enter a new "time zone" of evolution. Drop your shield, be 
vulnerable, thee wound is the reminder, you cannot remain untouched, so 
touch yourself.

Enter the Combat Zone. The Temple has declared war. It does not do so 
lightly.

T.O.P.Y. is an energy, fuelled with fiery Individuals who want change. 
Change. People are too hung up with sex, with getting things done, so they 
mess up. No-one cares anymore. To become rewarded is to give. And to give 
is contagious, to create synergism.

The Self is who I am after, yet I cannot find her until I give her away, and 
watch her without from within; then I can go. Egos are selfish and jealous - 
to reverse the Ego is to open the mind; to be curious; to recognise, to 
understand, to commit. Without altering the Ego one cannot undergo the 
process. E to 3.

I am curious. Curious and willing to learn. Tell me what I could do for the 
group that would help me. Not really help, but INlighten. For we are all out 
for INlightenment, for each one of us, ourselves, and for the whole. First 
know to be yourself, then to help the group, then to know you ARE your self.

For me I cannot "When in doubt - BE EXTREME"
Right now it's "When in doubt - Do Nothing"
I am curious Right Now.

CROSS! 

Life is mediated by symbols. Symbols that steal. Numerical symbols that 
steal our intelligence. Word symbols that steal our voice. Pornographic 
symbols that steal our sexuality. Magical symbols that steal our will. A death 
on your symbols. Let each kill themselves.

The Psychick Cross is a symbol that represents the idea of "without 
Symbols". It is the first entry in a dictionary of the future Meta-symbolical 
language, a language of no-thought.

T.O.P.Y. is directed anger (which in itself is only Love). A foundation set up to 
compile this "dictionary" which all WEs will need in order to survive. A 
clearing house of symbols.

When ever you dis-cover stamp on a Psychick Cross. This release it for our 
use.

---------------------------------------------

The Temple Ov Psychick Youth is an organisation that has been created to 
further the ideas and feelings of those who feel that they have something to 
contribute to the running of society. The Temple involves a large scope of 
feelings and images that are connected to each other by the potency of their 
own desires.

Firstly, the Temple as an organisation is created for those who feel and 
believe that they can increase their own potential in body and mind by 
pushing themselves to the limit of their durability, and do so in such a way 
that they can find the limitations of their own body as well as finding how 
far they can really go in producing a perfect understanding of themselves. 
Unlike other creations, the Temple does not try to coerce of push an 
Individual into doing what "it" wants them to do - the contrary is true, the 
Temple encourages the individual to think and act for themselves, perhaps 
offering gentle instruction as an aid to success. The Temple remains as a 
haven for help where friends are guaranteed. A spiritual as well as physical 
father. By involving oneself with the Temple you find that the trappings of 
an autocratic society are handcuffs to the spirit, holding you in place, 
disabling a mind, disallowing it to think and act for itself - laying down rigid 
rules that must be adhered to. The Temple, conversely, encourages us that 
we need no regimented rules to survive, all we need is to expend a minimal 
amount of consideration for our fellow people, to accept differences in colour, 
ideas, sexuality, etc. Falling (sic), the rules of our wonderful and enlightened 
society has led to nothing but war, man killing man; religion playing a large 
part in the reasons for war. Religion is another point that the Temple puts 
across. It shows us the trivialities in religion be it Christian or Hindu. The 
idea of believing in a spiritual god - how abhorrent. It insults the intelligence 
to have god and jesus rammed down our throats - Crass put my feelings 
very well when they said Jesus died for his own sins, no mine. Religion is an 
easy way for a frightened people to hide behind the eventuality of their own 
death - it's okay, we will be going to a better life - what a joke. The only 
temple/god we should worship is our own bodies - any sacrament to be 
given should be exercise of the mind and body. Prayer should be an 
introspective look into your own feelings.

The Psychick Cross is a symbol that is easily recognisable - and therefore a 
medium through which publicity can be shown. Unlike the "cross" the 
psychick cross is a very strong image of ideals, and shows a firm belief in 
what we feel the Temple stands for; I know that when people see the cross 
on my clothes - be it badges, t-shirts - and they ask what it stands for, they 
will always associate it with the Temple as well as Psychic TV. The strength 
of its images remains in the subconscious, therefore leading to easy 
recognition. 

The Temple roots its beliefs in magic where sexuality and mental strength 
have always played an important role. This world is inhibited by its narrow-
mindedness of sexuality. The Temple shows us that we should not be 
embarrassed by it, nor inhibited by it. This does not necessarily mean 
infidelity, or polygamous behaviour. Free Love can be practised between two 
individuals involved in a close relationship because the restraints of society 
are prevalent in marriage etc. It encourages us to be free - the most 
important aim for all humans - to be rid of a repressive society and to 
develop together with no feelings of materialism.

Although society is against us, too many people are unable to stand up for 
themselves, they allow themselves to be carried along without stating how 
they wish things should be done. If we work hard enough though, perhaps 
one day we will have a world where at least the ideas of the Temple are 
practised, even if they are disconnected from the actual force and developer 
of those ideas.

---------------------------------------------

The Temple is a group of people who together, and individually, work to 
combat any form of personal restriction. Quite simply we want to make our 
dreams, and those of everyone else, come true.

We work on three levels, or ratios. On the first level we examine our real 
selves, discovering our dreams, our potential, our REAL selves. We then try 
to live our lives, realising our dreams and making the most of what we have 
to offer (skills, abilities, etc...), thus following (to use a rather archaic term) 
our destiny. Once an initiate begins to work on this ratio, he/she has a 
chance to take joint control of the helm. The Temple is constantly evolving: 
each initiate has the chance to help dictate the direction of that evolution. In 
the 3rd ratio we work to try and improve the world in which we live. At this 
level we try to act as an evolutionary goad, pushing mankind back on course.

We realise that the only way of achieving anything is to help one another. So 
whenever we can we donate time, money, ideas and skills to T.O.P.Y. We 
receive no reward for this: no medals, no "I raised £100" selling t-shirts. The 
reward is the knowledge that we have helped someone else to realise their 
dreams.

We are an international group, with bases in the UK, Holland, Germany, 
Sweden, Canada and America.

As is obvious ("Temple" & "Psychick") we are metaphysically minded. Many 
of our methods could be considered magickal. Magick is merely a technique 
for helping us negate the effects of restriction and control; and live (again 
that rather naff word) destiny. We are constantly developing and refining 
our own magick. We do not believe in any great powerhouse in the sky, any 
gods, angels, demons, etc. We have realised that the human brain is capable 
of much more than it is used for. Our magick operates within the human 
nervous system - and works!

Our magickal techniques are a little too "technical" to go in to. Suffice it to 
say that one of our main sources of energy is sexuality and orgasms. Sex 
plays a very important role in our philosophy as the energy obtained from it 
is tremendous. As was said earlier, we try to "touch our real selves". Our first 
stepping stone to this is the removal of restriction placed on our sexuality by 
society. Once a month, or more, an initiate performs a simple magickal 
exercise which is designed to bring him/her closer to his or her real 
sexuality - as experienced in sexual fantasies. There should be no holds on 
sex, one should be able to enjoy sex in whatever way one, and one's 
partner(s), want to.

Our symbol, logo, emblem or whatever - the Psychick Cross - contains a great 
deal of symbolism. The most obvious facets are: 1, it is the reverse of the 
Papal Cross, thus making it an anti-papal cross; 2, it is an "E" for Ego, backed 
with a reversed "E", thus representing the negation of the Ego's role over the 
human mind.

In many systems of magick numbers are said to have meanings. 23 has 
many meanings all of which are applicable to the Temple: Initiation; Union of 
Fire and Water (symbols of male and female) - sex; Integration of all levels 
of consciousness.

I first heard of T.O.P.Y. through the drunken ramblings of someone I now 
find it impossible to describe. At the time "Godstar" boomed from his room 
almost constantly. After this, a friend lent me "Dreams Less Sweet". I bought 
a few records, sent off for some literature.

Previously, I had dabbled with THELEMA, which seemed to ask the right 
questions, but gave the wrong answers. T.O.P.Y. seemed to ask equally 
pertinent questions (and sometimes more so), and answered them with 
nothing but Hagbard Celine's "Think for yourself Schmuck". As time went on 
I became increasingly interested in, and in agreement with, the Temple's 
ideas.

At last a decent magickal system. No more silly Kabbalistic rituals. Simple, 
straightforward, and functional. A chance to help, however little, however 
much. Perhaps even to meet people who've got better things on their mind 
than taking the piss.

---------------------------------------------

The Temple is an international group of people who want to improve the 
quality of not only their own lives, but of everybody. We have realised that 
the life of the average person lacks direction and meaning. Human beings are 
persuaded, by various methods, to do what they are told, however subtly, 
rather than what they really want. Some realise this and "drop out", hiding 
the world behind a beer can or a line of coke; others try to change the world. 
We are in the latter group. We try to do nothing unless we really want to. 
We try to differentiate between "pretend" desires programmed into us by 
society, and our true wishes. We then try to live these true desires. That is 
what real freedom is. Our method is, I believe, the most powerful. We use 
magick; not card tricks or turning princes into frogs; but real magick (that's 
what the "k" on the end signifies), which is a method of programming your 
own mind to do what you want it to do. We use sex as a tool for elevating the 
mind in much of our magick. Sex is one of our basic needs. It is also the most 
powerful force we have access to.

---------------------------------------------

What attracted you to T.O.P.Y.?

The systematic use ov will power to make dreams become real. The 
undogmatic appreciation ov the inherent potentials ov thee Individual who 
wants to see and is not afraid to invest energy in finding their true self, their 
true desires, and to act accordingly. Furthermore, the new approach to 
Magick: a demystified system ov practical techniques to extend the 
perception and skill ov acting consciously according to one's own nature 
without guilt.

In what ways has T.O.P.Y. failed to live up to your expectations so far?

I see T.O.P.Y. as an active forum/expression/output ov thee assembled 
energy ov its members. I consider myself taking part in thee process and 
don't feel that thee organ has failed to live up to my expectations as they are 
identical with thee expectations I have for myself in life. I apply T.O.P.Y. in 
my life according to my own interpretation and accept no dogmaa, and as 
long as I feel that my intentions coincide with T.O.P.Y. and that its structure 
is based on mutual appreciation/trust/respect/challenge/communication 
then I invest energy in this forum. I am curious/open-minded by nature. In 
thee course ov time and involvement much is explained. I have no fear.

Explain T.O.P.Y.

Through education, school, inherited dogmatic value systems, TV, radio, 
written/spoken propaganda people are continously deprived ov their self 
respect as unique manifold human Individuals. We are systematically 
discouraged by thee keepers ov addicts to Control from exploring our real 
physical and mental needs and potentials. We are exposed to constant 
programming, its main aim being streamlining ov thought into unquestioned 
acceptance ov illusory satisfaction, leaving an unlocated feeling ov 
frustration behind. Fear is the Key to Control/Manipulation. Thee fear ov 
change/thee unknown/thee unsecure/thee unfamiliar - all these block thee 
Individual longing for development/experience and make him/her accept 
thee vast offer ov surrogates and substitutes in today's world system. Those 
who are not contented with this pseudo-reality seek other ways for deeper 
knowledge/realisation ov dreams, and create their own forum/access point 
for mutual encouragement/support/challenge ov individuality and will.

We are history, thee sum ov our ancestors. If we ignore our own history and 
its impact on our lives, we are inclined to repeat thee pitfalls and disasters 
ov previous generations. We dig our own graves as culture.

Christianity has monopolised thee European thought system and thee use ov 
ancient methods/rituals as a means ov recollecting force, and has deformed 
its intentions to thee point where they lose every form ov potence and sense 
while being refunctioned to "evil/dangerous mysticism/occultism".

Ritual as Access Point to thee inner regions ov thee mind and focus ov will 
into conscious action. . .thee threat to status quo in thee present socio-
political and cultural world-system. A society deprived ov its history/past is 
a society deprived ov its future and identity.

Sex is thee primal key to thee mental system ov a person. It is thee nucleus 
ov their own past, present, and future. In thee moment ov orgasm thee brain 
is for a short period ov time thrown out ov/disconnected from its 
subconsciously socialised/adapted thought-system. In this moment ov 
disconnection thee brain is highly susceptible to new information. Orgasm is 
thee Access Point ov de- and re-programming ov thee mind. Storage ov 
subconscious information - thee seed to conscious action. Attack on 
subconsciousness determines thee overflow to consciousness latently 
transformed into concrete action.

Education/indoctrination has trimmed our minds in thee course ov a life-
time to fit thee demands/needs ov thee control units in society. We see 
continuous re-education as a necessity in order to develop. Ritual 
strengthens our determination to find and do our true selves and to cross 
new borders ov knowledge and understanding, to avoid thee obstacles to 
thee realisation ov our dreams. Through self-decided 
"indoctrination/dedoctrination" ov thee subconscious mind we avoid daily 
pitfalls in mental laziness and cowardice/compromise. Free sexuality without 
guilt liberates our mind from inherent blocking mechanisms between 
consciousness. Free flow ov information between thee brain hemispheres 
brightens our eyes, makes us clear, strong and real.

23: Number ov "Coincidence" - thee genes in thee human being consist ov 23 
chromosomes, blood needs 23 seconds to cross thee human body. A sign ov 
life and death, its correlation and its unknown dimensions. Death/mortality - 
thee ultimate reference point for each human being. To live fully without 
regrets or not. We are mortal. Here and Now.

Christians have their Cross - fetish ov guilt and shame. Christ on thee Cross - 
symbol ov martyrdom/sacrifice for thee sinfulness ov thee human race. 
Unworthy, godless slaves.

We repudiate - have our own fetish/symbol for thee immense possibilities 
and dimensions ov thee human mind and vessel in life. Thee Psychick Cross - 
an alchemical symbol for (magickally) dangerous material/knowledge. Thee 
Temple Ov Psychick Youth is "danger" to dogmatic/streamlined thought, that 
is to thee stability/status quo in present society/culture: thee seed to a new 
science/way ov living.

Magick: a system ov Will Made Flesh. We focus our will in collective ritual 
across thee world on thee 23rd ov each month, and programme/tune-in our 
mutual wavelengths/sexual desires in thee moment ov orgasm. Our will-
power programmed in thee genes and assembled in thee liquids ov 
semen/lubricant/blood/spit, and hair.

Thee features ov thee embryo is decided/determined through thee thoughts 
ov sexual partners during coitus. Thought made Flesh. Will made Real. 
T.O.P.Y. Made Real.

---------------------------------------------

In answer to a cynical journalist:

Most people can't stomach the "missionary zeal", so to speak, so any mention 
of a "Great Crusade to save The World" is right out of the window. The 
Temple is there for those who want it - it isn't another banal ideology, but a 
network of Individual interests where information is relayed to one another 
on the basis of practical experience. You've heard of synergy: the working 
together of two or more elements to create an effect greater that the sum of 
the individual elements' output. Well that's us! We support one another by 
our own efforts - like a latter-day tribe.

What impels a person to work within the Temple? A dissatisfaction with 
current societal values, perhaps. An awareness of possibilities within 
ourselves that most recognised institutions of society, religious or otherwise, 
either flatly deny or appear reluctant to expand upon. (As social beings we 
have an inner need to express ourselves amongst friends - interpreting 
"friends" as those people who can relate to you!) All such answers seem a bit 
"rhetorical" to me, so we might gain a better understanding of the 
"attraction" of T.O.P.Y. by taking a brief look at the ideas and methods it 
collectively presents. 

We take a very broad view - limitlessly so - of the means at our disposal 
towards self-development. Jung called it individuation. Aleister Crowley 
called it the realisation of the True Will. You may call it simply "Maturity". 
From the lore of Magic (a much scoffed at notion, superficially, in our high-
tech rationalistic era; but isn't our science the highest magic to a so-called 
primitive? And what arrogance you have to deny the function of something 
you know nothing about, despite its overwhelming history of practice?!), to 
music, to martial art; if the perceptive individual thinks there is something 
worth picking up on, we will attempt to pluck it out of the mire and use it! 
That is why T.O.P.Y. is often seen in the "public eye" to "wallow morbidly" in 
social taboos; or however else they choose to put it. Life's too short and 
wonderful to run away from and/or wrap up in unnecessary 
prohibitions/superstitions. So, cut out the crap! The Temple brings together 
people who aren't afraid to try a little. The luxuries of Western "civilisation" 
(loud laughter) also bring greater excuses for us to get very lazy. 

(The notion of forced commitment, street-corner proselytizing, I find 
repulsive. We emphasise, more than anything else, the power and 
cretiveness of the individual will; how that feeling can be shared through 
communication and care. To force others to "join in" would defeat the 
purpose of the network. How can I force you to be yourself? [eg. forcing 
another to emulate my thoughts & feelings is no freedom for the other 
person.] What the fucks the point? We can only provide inspiration - no 
greedy Gurus infest this House.)

Why do I think T.O.P.Y. is important? Could answer that in several ways I 
suppose. The workings of the Temple are not always to my liking, but then, 
as a network with some degree of structuring/organisation, what else do you 
expect? Humanity has yet to invent a machine that is 100% efficient. And 
involvement with T.O.P.Y. does NOT mean you go along with every suggestion 
that's put forward. In terms of energy, feedback and so on, you reap what 
you sow; just as with any human relationship (I use that analogy quite 
intentionally). Anyway, I feel it is important because - in an age of much 
insincerity - T.O.P.Y. is rooted in what I ultimately recognise as COMMON 
SENSE. We seek to embrace the earthly human condition, warts and all. We 
look at ourselves and recognise the need to strive for personal goals; expand 
our often blinkered definition of "self" by trying to utilise the new and the 
strange; experiment, instead of wallowing in the "fear of the unknown"; 
reject dogma, reject guilt, reject anything that leads to unnecessary anxiety - 
not by pushing things to the side, but by confrontation. (The quickest route 
between two points is a straight line.) Such ideas, although expressed a little 
dogmatically here for the sake of brevity, outline a healthy, strong approach 
to living. And it feels very refreshing to be amongst friends who won't try to 
fob you off with more alienating politics or mystical pap.

No, my involvement with T.O.P.Y. has not equipped me with easy panaceas 
for the problem of Government, etc. We live in a complex environment - I 
am the first to admit it. T.O.P.Y. has no manifesto up its collective sleeve. 
Rather, we consider the situation from the perspective of "To change the 
World you must first change yourself." It is no use disbanding the police-
force tomorrow if they are all going to continue acting in the same way to 
the people they picked on before!

(To amuse myself, I might describe involvement in the Temple as a course in 
psychic self-defense for the outsider! But then you'd probably take that the 
wrong way. The Temple is NOT a cheap sort of psychotherapy; no psychic 
prescriptions from Doc P-Orridge, or anybody ridiculous like that. Nobody 
involved in the network wishes to suffer fools gladly, and the only people 
"assessed" are ourselves - BY OURSELVES. A little eccentricity leads to a 
progression of ideas - stupidity does not! And you must ultimately deal with 
your own problems, if you wish to reclaim personal responsibility at all - a 
belief that is central to T.O.P.Y. philosophy.)

Why the big profile on Sex in T.O.P.Y.? The fact that you feel our "high 
profile" needs to be mentioned may provide part of the answer! As I have 
already tried to indicate, the Temple strives to eliminate our (often 
culturally inherited) feelings of guilt. We consider sexual energy to be of 
great importance - its free expression is our very birthright, in whatever 
way our nature inclines. The neuroses and psychosomatic ailments resulting 
from high levels of sexual repression have been catalogued well enough by 
now, without me having to re-iterate the point. And guilt about one's 
personal sexual activities can be used as a potent weapon in the hands of 
your adversaries - just look at the gutter press. Sexuality is just that - 
whether it be expressed in "fetishism", "homosexual" activity (a horrible, 
clinical expression if ever I heard one), and so on. It's nobody's business but 
your own.

Having said that, it is obvious that many people - particularly the younger - 
pursue an active sex life without recourse to massive guilt! So why all the 
hypocrisy about its public expression? Why the hassle? Evidently, the mass 
media does not reflect an accurate - honest - picture of our feelings. The 
Sunday Sport continues to make sex and sexuality an absurdity - something 
to sneer at. We wonder why. 

T.O.P.Y. wishes to take sexuality a step further by investigating the powers 
we consider to be generated by sexual activity, so that they can be used for 
the benifit of the individual. Every Individual. Orgasm has a powerful effect 
on one's perception, body chemistry, bio-electric field, etc., if only for a few 
moments. And we feel that the state of being created can be put to use, in 
combination with intense desire. Again, we are entering the arena of 
"magick" and ritual (all sex is ritual); we are considering the so-called dark 
side of nature, and to a TV generation brought up on Dennis Wheatley films, 
such ideas seem very taboo. We wish to break down those superstitions - we 
have little room for fear in such speculative areas - but we have no vested 
interest in people agreeing with our aims and methods. (We are not out to 
harm anybody, so please remain sensible and leave us be if you are 
sceptical/unimpressed.)

Of course you can't discuss sex without mentioning AIDS nowadays. To 
counter popular misconceptions let it be stressed that the Temple does NOT 
encourage orgiastic or promiscuous behaviour - forced promiscuity to prove 
one's "liberation" is just a stupid and damaging as exaggerated pruder; if it 
goes against your natural inclinations. I suggest you use your common-sense 
and exercise responsibility. But, to give an example: should someone 
attracted to their own sex no longer feel attracted because circumstances 
dictate a certain degree of caution with the choice of partners? We think not. 
Circumstances and the means of your natural indulgence may vary quite a 
bit, but the right to "be and feel" whatever you are does not. This must be 
kept in mind, as the puritans cry out for "conformity" yet again. . . 

---------------------------------------------

Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth, we are united, united in the differences that 
constitute our individuality. At one stage or another all ov us had reached 
the same crossroad. The roads were clearly marked - conformity, control, 
suburbia, soap and no hope. The general flat planes that lead to a hollow, 
wasted death. Instead, we deliberately leave the roads to travel cross-
country - to aim for the high mountains on the horizon. There are no clearly 
visible signposts, no neatly maintained roads and no resting points. The 
undergrowth can be extremely dense, the inhabitants hostile and the speed 
of travel tiresomely slow. But etched on the horizon, amongst the loftiest of 
mountains is a Psychick Cross. We move onwards and upwards. This is the 
way of T.O.P.Y.

To travel with T.O.P.Y. is to map out your own route, to cross virgin territory, 
often alone. You discover you pace, your own dreams of the goal. Discovering 
your own philosophy of life, but instead of preaching it you live it, and live it 
to the full. We may travel alone, but we obtain strength that elsewhere in 
the wilderness others are planning and travelling their own routes to the 
same goal. We may rendezvous, by chance or by desire. We can then share, 
relate our travels and exchange maps for we know that to fulfill our life we 
must help fulfill others: open their eyes, let them help us open ours. Share 
our results and tactics and help to change the maps of old. To lay new paths 
and roads and satisfy the discontentments of society and its expectations and 
limitations of an individual.

It is every person's basic right and task to be as they will, as they truly will. 
The study is long and hard to find this will. Total self-honesty is needed. The 
ability to touch oneself, no less. T.O.P.Y. will encourage, suggest ways of 
touching at all levels and of all aspects, by using rituals and intuitive 
magickal methods specifically aimed at getting closer to oneself. To integrate 
all the different levels and aspects to develop a total, free individual.

T.O.P.Y. realises that every man and woman has their own potential to 
achieve and live by. This can vary greatly within individuals but this is the 
key because each individual's achievements are relative to only that one 
person's potential. There is no competitive hierarchy as that would serve 
only to stifle development. Each individual must ultimately justify their 
every motive, action and belief to themselves. If they achieve this then they 
are allowing T.O.P.Y. to achieve itself. It cannot work in reverse. It can be 
hard. To start to truly look at yourself can hurt. Strength, honesty and 
commitment are needed to move towards T.O.P.Y. Sexuality is a key as 
within sexuality the restrictions and constrictions of society and its controls 
can bite the hardest. To liberate and understand one's own sexuality is to 
liberate and understand T.O.P.Y. An individual who has learnt to express 
themselves sexually can then use the lessons learnt here to inspire freedom 
and development in other aspects of their person. Your sex and sexuality 
belong to yourself. The energies it generates all come from within your 
psyche. At the peak of sex the doors open, the barriers collapse and there is 
no separation. The interchange between conscious and "sub"-conscious is 
complete. Using controlled focusing at this magickal time, T.O.P.Y. individuals 
can make a conscious desire to move to the higher levels of their own 
consciousness where it can take effect and help the dreams become real. By 
truly understanding this process and tailoring it to an individual's methods, 
breakthrough can be reached and you have given yourself back to yourself.

These methods of sexual focusing provide the basis of T.O.P.Y. workings. The 
results achieved here by the individual filter down through all levels, all 
actions, all motives. All comes from within the individual.

T.O.P.Y. has a psychick symbol and a psychick number. Both of these are 
woven deeply into the sub-structure. Both act as a focus, as a synthesis of 
beliefs and actions; as a trigger. The Psychick Cross with its horizontal arms 
in the ratio of 2 to 3 can be interpreted on many levels: to signify the 
individual (the vertical line) with his/her past (bottom line), present 
(middle) and future (top); a symbol of integration between opposing 
functions within an individual of T.O.P.Y. (3 E). The arms flow outwards from 
the Cross to symbolise growth and discovery whilst at the same time they all 
draw inwards to focus and synthesize this growth within the individual. A 
cross to sacrifice the self upon; a uniform symbol to identify with, but like 
T.O.P.Y. itself to be interpreted in different ways by different individuals. 

The magickal number 23 is interwoven throughout T.O.P.Y. It is the point of 
focus, to integrate, to dissolve. A time, a time for work, a date to complete a task 23 times is to see it move deep within the consciousness. A number 
that's history is proven and potent, one that occur