

                                        I
                                     ---I---
                                       -I-
                                     ---I---
                                        I

                          Thee Temple ov Psychick Youth
                         OnLine Transmisson Digest v0.75
                             TimeFix: Nov, 23. 1990
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Send Inquiries, Information, etc to kitsune@u.washington.edu
        or try: Coyote129 PoBox 95438 Seattle, WA 98145-2438 USA
                TOPY US PoBox 18223 Denver, CO 80218 USA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents ov this file:
0> Editorial etc. by Coyote 129
1> Magick by Coyote 23
2> An essay on Tantrick Masturbation by Brandy Williams
3> Essay on thee Occult Linx ov the Nazis by >UNKNOWN<
4> Dada, Merz, and the Nazi Party by Sibyl Moholy-Nagy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Greetings Allies!
  Welcome to what iz almost thee first issue ov Thee TOPY OnLine Digest...
E am planning to put these out at least on thee 23rd ov each month, perhaps
more if there iz enough material...
  so! get thee hint and send coum essays, ideas, thoughts, questions etc to: 
                         kitsune@u.washington.edu
please tell me if you DO NOT want eour letter included! e dont want to offend 
anyone!! :-) 

  Things e am looking to include in v1.0:
  Computerized Sigils
  Philosophy ov thee Internet
  Chaos Magick
  Thee Grail Legend
  Magickal Practices ov thee Nazis

 so, if you have coum info on these things (or anything) send it our way!
now, on with thee show.....!....!

L-ov-E
Coyote 129
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Magick
By Coyote 23
  What might be called thee conventional magician, say those trained in thee 
Golden Dawn, will spend a great deal of time and effort undergoing mental 
discipline training, thus enabling them to induce altered states of awareness 
such as trances.
  Thee Golden Dawn system places strong emphasis on astral projection. Thee 
'ordinary' persons (myself) reaction to this approach is 'I can't do that.'  
It's only after a long time, if at all, that you see any results. Perhaps we 
don't have thee necessary commitment but then why should we when its value can 
only be seen once you've done it. Lots of people dabble in magick but get no 
further. Also thee results and practise of such systems seem irrelevant to and 
in conflict with everyday life. This is not to undervalue mental discipline, 
but simply to say that most poeple don't have sufficient or thee commitment and
desire to develop it. Sex magick provides a more accessible approach.  
Combining immediate results with a system of mental training.
  Being more accessible it reduces thee need for Gurus and given thee 
individual a chance to develop. This is still a method of mental training or 
psychic development, to help intergrate Thee Self.
Now as I've tried to indicate such experiences of integration do occur 
naturally in 'normal life.'  This is thee great value of using sex in acts of 
magick.  It bases thee action on altered psychic states which are readily 
acheived and could be familiar if you bother to look at them.  Such states, 
continuous reminders of our wholeness, do occur naturally in a number of forms 
to everyone.  Even if they are difficult to induce or control they will still 
happen. Thee important point is that anyone can and does experience greatly 
altered/enlightened states of awareness.  You don't have to be a great adept.  
Anyone can, during certain periods, be that Integrated whole self.  You use 
thee energies released to direct every area of your life. 
Enjoy your Self ... you are whole.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tantric  Masturbation
   by Brandy Williams
     I prefer an outside location against the base of a friendly tree or on a 
deserted beach.  Where I now live, I have access to a large shower with a 
carpet and a big soft upholstered lounge chair that works well.	
    My greatest success happens during my moontimeQwhen I am menstuating.  
At that time I feel a substantial quantitative increase in the internal heat 
generated by this technique.

Sealing:  To seal means to close the chakras (the energy centers of the aura) 
and the body orifices, with a touch and a visualization.  I lightly touch my 
fingertips to the top of my head, forehead, eyes, nose, ears, mouth, throat, 
between my breasts, solar plexus, genitals, anus and feet.  With each touch I 
visualize a circle closing, like the petals of a flower closing for the night. 
I finish the seal by drawing a circle around myself.  I pass my hands over my 
heart center, over my head, along my body, under my feet, and back to my heart 
center.  At the same time I visualize a blue light trailing from my fingertips,
making a blue oval to enclose me.
	When I seal before masturbating or making love, I feel an increase of 
heat in my heart and genitals; and I don't feel tired or drained or lonely or 
scared when I'm done - I feel warm and cherished, by myself or by my partner.
	I also find that if I do not seal or protect myself during my moontime,
I experience a much more severe exhaustion after using this technique, a 'loss 
of energy' similar to that which my partner describes when he ejaculates 
frequently.  I hear from a lot of Tantric writers that male bodies must 
conserve their energy, but that female bodies may give endlessly; from my 
experience I do not find that statement to be true.  Female bodies also lose 
fluids.

Breathing Rhythmically:  I use a 6-3-6-3 pattern.  I inhale for six heartbeats,
hold the air in my lungs for three heartbeats, exhale for six, and rest without
breathing for three.  An easier and more common pattern is to inhale for four 
beats and exhale four beats.
	Whenever I do any kind of magic, I use this breath pattern, so for me 
it's linked to feeling sacred and powerful.  It also makes me breathe more 
deeply, which relaxes me.  Breathing meditation in general helps me clear my 
mind.  Later, there will be a time to generate images.  For now, I want to 
clear out extraneous material.  I'm not going to think about the article I'm 
writing or what I'm making for dinner. I'm going to make love to myself, and 
only that.  The breathing helps me to concentrate.

Autoerotic Stimulation:  The first step in actually making self-love is to 
stimulate myself and watch while I'm doing it.  I'm not talking about just 
stimulation of the clitoris (or penis) by hand - I rub my body against the 
surface I'm on - earth or sand or soft cloth.  I stroke the whole of my body, 
and suck whatever I can comfortably reach with my mouth.  The quality of this 
touch is light, gentle and cherishing ... which doesn't mean that it isn't 
passionate, only that it is not perfunctory or violent.

Heightened Pleasure:  Just before I climax, I stop. I visualize a column of 
gold or white energy rising from my genitals to my heart center hot.
 When I stop the physical stimulation just short of contraction, I get some of 
the same effects as in full-orgasm.  I feel sensation in my clitoris, a sense 
of my body trembling slightly, a brief cessation of thought, and perhaps one 
or two very small vaginal contractions.  My partner experiences similar effects,
including penile contractions.  However, I don't allow myself a full set of 
contractions, and he doesn't allow himself ejaculation.  We call this 'climax 
without ejaculation' and 'climax without contractions.'  (Obviously, our 
language isn't set up to discuss this.)
  This (hopefully specific) description does not convey the pleasure of the 
experience.  This is a smaller-scaled orgasm, not as intense or as 
uncontrollable as a full orgasm, but still fun.
  When I start a session, I require some stimulation and time to climax 
(without contraction) the first three times.  Thereafter, I experience a sort 
of perpetual state of almost-climax (with contraction).  I become very 
physically quiet, limiting stimulation to clitoris only, and hit a series of 
peaks of intense pleasure.
  Parenthically, my partner reports a very recent experience.  He's getting a 
climax with partial ejaculation.  He reports the sensations and penile 
contractions are slightly less intense than all-out orgasm.  The ejaculate is 
a different color:  clear, not white.  There is no loss of erection or arousal.
We don't know what's going on here biologically.  It is, at this point, an 
involuntary experience.
  The advantage of being able to make love while retaining a more or less 
indefinite state of arousal is obvious.  Tantric masturbation is a good place 
to learn, where no one will be upset if you go over the edge, and where the 
learning can progress more quickly because you're in complete control.

Visualization:  The second stage of making love to myself is to generate 
imagery.  I close my eyes and lift my head so that my head so that my spine is 
more or less straight.  In my mind's eye, I see a column of gold or white light
rising from my genitals, along my spine, through the chakras, and out through 
the top of my head to a globe two or three hand-widths above.  At the same 
time I feel an increase of internal heat where the column passes, until my 
central body, from genitals to head, is a flame.
  Some people refer to this as 'rousing Kundalini.'  They visualize the flame 
as a serpent raising its body.  This is supposed to bring enlightenment.  
It is also supposed to make the entire body shake uncontrollably, and to be 
dangerous to do without the guidance of a master.
  I experienced that kind of reaction once.  It did frighten me.  I stopped, 
and it immediately went away.  I have a friend who experienced this kind of 
vibration in a chakra meditation and thought, 'Wonderful!  I'm doing something 
right.'  So I think that what a guide might do is explain that the reaction is 
normal and safe.  This is useful to me, as I don't know any Tantric masters.  
Most writers, however, say to go out and find yourself one.
  Indian Tantric mythology talks about a dancer, Shiva, and his snake, Shakti. 
They create the Universe.  I know another myth:  Eurynome, the Goddess, who 
danced in The Void and formed Ophion, the Snake, from the wind.  They created 
the Universe also.
  I use both images.  The idea is to raise the Kundalini in my spine ( the 
snake) up to my crown chakra (the dancer) and to unite them.  The snake coils 
around the dancer's legs, body, genitals, and chest, licking the dancer's face.
 I imagine how a snake would feel coiled around my own body of light, slippery,
and moist with my sweat, undulating rhythmically.
 Alternatively, I see a being of light whose outlines dissolve in radiance, 
neither male nor female, remote from me, infinitely compassionate, with me and 
yet apart, stretching hands out to almost touch me, imparting great love and 
wisdom.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[ Treat this with a little more salt than usual! - 129 ]

Treatise concerning the Hitler-U.F.O.-Satanic Connection
Author Unknown

  The first light that touched the infant HitlerUs soft pink skin also touched 
the town of Braumau-am-inn, near the Austrian border.  At that time, Braumau-
am-inn was known as the birthplace of both mediums and mystics, and thus the 
seed of occult knowledge was already inside the babe Hitler.  When Adolf Hitler
first beheld the so-called 'Spear of Destiny' he experienced a vision he could 
not speak of......
  In the early days of the war, Hitler, a man capable of intense anxiety and 
nervousness, was quite calm in his conquests of Europe.  He acted in power 
because he knew through occult 'vision' that he would meet no resistance, we 
are told.  But where did he get these strange powers?  The seed did not sprout 
by itself, there was help by occult gardeners; he was assisted by such secret 
societies as the Golden Dawn, the Vril Society and the Thule Society.
  The Golden Dawn was formed in the United Kingdom circa. 1885 by S.L. 
MacGregor Mathers in association with W. Wynn Westcott and others.  Mathers was
in contact with a group of 'super beings' or 'preater-human intelligences',
which held the office of the 'Secret Chiefs' of the Great White Brotherhood.  
Mathers described them in a letter to the 'members of the Second Order': 
'as for me, I believe there are human beings living on this Earth, but endowed 
with terrible supernatural powers.'  The rituals of the Golden Dawn were based 
on a cipher manuscript found in a tome by Eliphaz Levi and the Order attracted 
the attention of famous writers, artists and English leaders such as 
Bram Stoker, W.B. Yeats, Sir Aleister Crowley and Bulwer Lytton.  Lytton's book
'The Coming Race' influenced both the Vril Society and Adolf Hitler profoundly;
we shall discuss this shortly....  An early member of the Golden Dawn was 
Karl Haushoffer.  He was known in Hitler's circle as 'The General with Second 
Sight.'  Rudolf Hess studied geo-politics under Haushoffer's direction, he 
advised Hitler to write 'Mein Kampf' and suggested the swastika as the party 
symbol.  Haushoffer had toured the East, and it was while in Asia that he began
investigating the Buddhist tradition of 'Aghtarta,' the name for the 
underground world.  Mongolian monks are said to be in contact with the 
under-people.  Perhaps this is the reason that Haushoffer stated 'he who 
controls Mongolia will control the world.'
  Of mutual friends between Sir Aleister Crowley and Adolf Hitler, two are most
notable; Martha K^_ntzel (who translated'Liber Al vel Legis' or 'The Book of the
Law, a work written in 1904, which foretold the coming of 'the war lord of the 
fourties,' Adolf Hitler, into German) and Capt. J.F.C. Fuller, a student of 
Crowley's and reportedly 'the only Englishman what Hitler liked.'  Capt. Fuller
was the only Briton invited to Adolf's 50th birthday celebration.
  Let us now examine Hitler's involvement with the Vril[e] and Thule societies:
the Thule was a Germanic magical order similar to the Pansophia, founded by 
Herr Tranker of the German O.T.O. and those people then labeled as 'the German 
Rosicrucian movement.'  The Vril society was a philosophical order based on the
belief of Vril energy, which, according to Madame H.P. Blavatsky in her 
'Secret Doctrine'; 'we can understand, they say, the necessity for concealing 
from the herd such secrets as the Vril, or the rock destroying force, 
discovered by John W. Keely of Philidelphia, PA....'  It was also Keely, in the
19th century discovered 'perpetual motion.'  Elsewhere in this same work she 
notes 'if the question is asked why Mr. Keely was not allowed to pass a certain
limit, the answer is easy; it is because that, which he has unconsciously 
discovered is the terrible sidereal force, known to, and named by the Aryan 
Rishis in their Astra Vidya by a name we do not like to give.'  Hitler became 
aware of Vril through Lytton's novel 'The Coming Race' which suggested that a 
race of highly advanced beings living underground had in its control a force 
called 'Vril-ya,' a power associated with the Hindoo 'prana,' the 'yesod' of 
the Cabalists, the QeleVma of Hermes, Schr^Zedinge's 'negative enthropy' or the 
'quintessence' of the alchemists.  As early as 1936 Hitler was sending  teams 
of 'Spelunkers' into caves and mines all over Europe searching for Vril-ya.  
The NAZI's had also explored Antartica extensively during the years 1937-1938 
where they found, like Admiral Byrd, warm water lakes and doubtlessly as Byrd 
found, one of the biggest of the two polar entrances to the Inner Earth.  It is
there that they no doubt had a summit with the ^_bermensch or supermen at the
Gates of Eden itself, in the legendary polar-rim city, Rainbow City.
  'The New Man is living amongst us now, he is here.  Isn't that enough for you?
I will tell you a secret; I have seen the New Man.  He is intrepid and cruel.  
I was afraid of him.' 
  Hitler was quoted as having said of the extraterrestrials.  While the Vril 
Society's official view was as such: 'The world will change, the Lords will 
emerge from the center of the earth.  Unless we have made an alliance with them
and become Lords ourselves, we shall find ourselves among the slaves, on the 
dung-heap that will feed the roots of the new cities that will arise.'

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dada, Merz, and the National Socialist Party party
by Sibyl Moholy-Nagy

  "The following night the German Press Association gave a banquet for the 
Italians, to which we had received an personal invitation from Marinetti.  
Moholy was unwilling to go.  He had been shadowed by the SS; his refusal to 
submit his paintings to the censorship of the National Socialist Art Chamber 
to obtain a 'work permit' had been followed by threats of arrest.  His cleaning
woman had stolen his mail and had delivered it to the Blockwart  (political 
block warden), and some of his associates had disappeared mysteriously.  He was
done with Germany, and on his last night in Berlin he didn't feel like sitting 
down with the new rulers.  But Kurt Schwitters, who was our house guest at the 
time, insisted on going, to honor the revolutionary in Marinetti, and he 
finally persuaded Moholy to join him. ....
  "The banquet offered a very different picture from the lecture the night 
before and confirmed all of Moholy's misgivings.  Short of Hitler, all the 
Nazis were present: Goebbels and Goring, August Wilhelm of Hohenzollern, the 
president of the Berlin university, Gerhart Hauptmann, once the torchbearer of 
revolution but now a chipped plaster image of Goethe.  Hess was there, and 
with him was fat Rohm, whose days were already numbered.  These officials were 
sitting along a huge horse-shoe table, while Nazi underlings and the artists 
whom Marinetti had insisted upon inviting sat at individual tables.  Moholy, 
Schwitters, and I were sandwiched between the head of the National Socialist 
Organization for Folk Culture, and the leader of the 'Strength Through Joy' 
movement.  The disharmony between the guests was accentuated by the absence of 
speeches and an unlimited consumption of excellent German Rhine wine.  Moholy 
was silent.  His face was shuttered, and when our eyes met I saw that he was 
full of resentment.  The more Schwitters drank, the more fondly he regarded 
his neighbor.
  'I love you, you Cultural Folk and Joy,' he said.  'Honestly I love you.  
You think I'm not worthy of sharing your chamber, your art chamber for strength
and folk, ha?  I'm and idiot too, and I can prove it.'
  Moholy put his hand firmly on Schwitters' arm and for a few moments he was 
silent, drinking rapidly and searching the blank face of his neighbor with wild
blue eyes.
  'You think I'm a Dadaist, don't you,' he suddenly started again.  'That's 
where your wrong, brother.  I'm MERZ.'  He thumped his wrinkled dress shirt 
near his heart.  'I'm Aryan-the great Aryan MERZ.  I can think Aryan, paint 
Aryan, spit Aryan.'
  He held an unsteady fist before the man's nose. 
 'With this Aryan fist I shall destroy the mistakes of my youth--If you want 
me to--' he added in a whisper after a long sip.
  There was no reaction at all from the 'Strength Through Joy' man while the 
official from the Folk Culture Organization nodded droolingly, his round cheeks
puffed up with wine and amazement.  Schwitters took a sudden liking to him.
  'Oh joyful babyface,' he muttered, tears running down his cheeks.  'You will 
not prohibit me from MERZing my MERZ art?'
  The word 'prohibit' had finally penetrated the foggy brain of the '
Strength Through Joy' man.
  'Prohibited is prohibited [Verboten ist verboten],' he said with great 
firmness and a heavy tongue.  'And when the Fuhrer says 'Ja' he says 'Ja' and 
when the Fuhrer says "Nein' he says 'Nein'.  Heil Hitler!'
  Schwitters looked wildly at Moholy, at me, at Marinetti, but before he could 
incite anyone to action, Marinetti had risen from his chair.  He swayed 
considerably and his face was purple.
  'My friends,' he said in French, 'After the many excellent speeches tonight'
--the silent officials winced---'I feel the urge to thank the great, 
courageous, high-spirited people of Berlin.  I shall recite my poem 'The Raid 
on Adrianople.'
   There was polite applause.  Some nice poetry would break the embarrassing 
dullness of the dinner.
  'Adrianople est cerne de toutes parts SSSSrrrr zitzitzitzitzi'
roared Marinetti.
  'Ouah ouah ouah. depart des trains suicides, ouah ouah ouah'
The audience gasped, a few hushed giggles were audible.
  'Tchip tchip tchip---feeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelez!'
He grabbed a wineglass and smashed it to the floor.  
  'Tchip tchip tchip----des messages telegraphiques, couturieres Americaines.
Piiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiing, sssssssssrrrrrrrrr zitzit         toum toum Patrou
ille tapie----'
Marinetti threw himself over the table.
  'Vaniteeeeee, viande congeleeeeeeee--veilleuse de La Madone.'
expiring almost as a whisper from his lips.
  Slowly he slid to the floor, his clentched fingers pulling the tablecloth 
downward, wine, food, plates, and silverware puring into the laps of the 
notables.
  Schwitters had jumped up at the first sound of the poem.  Like a horse at a 
familiar sound the Dadaist in him responded to the signal.  His face flushed, 
his mouth open, he followed each of Marinetti's moves with his own body.  
In the momentary silence that followed the climax his eyes met Moholy's.
  "Oh Anna Blume,' he whispered, and suddenly breaking out into a roar that 
drowned the din of protesting voices and scraping chair legs, he thundered:

                       'Oh Anna Blume
                        Du bist von hinten wie von vorn
                        A-n-n-a.'
===============================================================================
                          End ov TOPY OnLIne v0.75