------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                       XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
                       XXXXXX  XXXXXX
                       XX          XX       TOPY ON-LINE TRANSMISSION
                       XXXXXX  XXXXXX
                       XXXX      XXXX       FREQUENCY ZERO
                       XXXXXX  XXXXXX
                       XX          XX       MARCH 23, 1991
                       XXXXXX  XXXXXX
                       XXXXXXXXXXXXXX


SEND INQUIRIES, SUGGESTIONS AND SUBMISSIONS TO:  kitsune@u.washington.edu
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1)  Edit by Coyote 131
    2)  Astrology Et Al by NUIT
        3)  Stations ov thee Cross by Coyote 2
            4)  The Devil and a Dream by Coyote 131
                5)  "I was brought up a Christian..." by G.P-O.
                    6)  Temple Text III




------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1) Editorial:
E hopi all ov ewe had a blessed and fruitful E-quinox...E would like to
thank NUIT  for her article...E hopi ewe WILL find it useful...while
deciding what to include in this transmission E reached into me TOPI
file and pulled out a piece ov paper at random...it coumtained "Thee
Stations ov thee Cross" which seems very appropiate with thee Xian
(un)Holy Daze ov Black Friday (me favortie) and thee rest which are soon 
approaching...and it fits well with thee two pieces which follow it 
that E had already chosen...thee prose, "The Devil and a Dream", E 
wrote recently about a very  vivid dream E had a few y-eras ago which 
when E told it to thee person E was sleeping with he filled in 
details...a shared dream?  Thee piece by Gen is taken from an interview 
with him and thee text is an excerpt from UNCLEAN in thee 
italian...thee Temple Text is ov course from thee Grey Book...

                                                
L-OV-E under WILL
 
Coyote 131

"Mal d'or or gold of dolour
 Mal d'or or gold has destroyed death's door."
                   
             -Tristan Tzara


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2)  Astrology Et Al

>From nuit Sat Mar 23 11:45:28 1991

The following is some astrological advice for sigils or rituals
practiced March 23, 1991.  I hope this will help some of you get in
tuned with the present planetary energy currents!

The Sun is in Aries; we recently celebrated Spring Equinox, which is 
the Astrologer's New Year signified by the passing of the Sun from
Pisces into Aries.  Aries is the sign of new beginnings.  It is like a
child: pioneering, headstrong, brash, alive.  This is a good month for 
rituals pretaining to new beginnings or desires for the new astrological 
year.

The Moon is in Pisces until 7:30 PST tomorrow morning.  As the moon is
waxing (the full moon is at 11:17 pm PST on Crucifixion Day) this is a 
good time for construction (as opposed to destruction or dissipation) and 
works towards gain.  The moon is the closest astrological body to us, and 
may have strong effects upon our emotions and intuitions.  The Moon in
Pisces is the best time for workings related to sensitivity, 
spirituality, working out illusionment and self-deception, and dreams.  
The Pisces ritual color is purple.

Mercury, the planet of communications and of Magick, is also in Aries,
again giving this day added emphasis on new beginnings and endeavors.

Venus is in Taurus, which means workings pertaining to love and beauty
will have a more practical impact.

Mars, the planet of aggression is in Gemini, releasing active energy into 
the realm of intellectualization.

The outer planets move slower and therefore may be in the same sign for
many months or years.  The real impact of these planets is in how they
are aligned with planets in your natal chart; that is, where planets
were at the moment you were born.

If you have any astrological questions, please feel free to contact me:

II                     II         
II  "DEATH NEEDS TIME  II        nuit@milton.u.washington.edu               
II  FOR WHAT IT KILLS  II        P.O. Box 95438, Seattle WA USA 
II     TO GROW IN"     II        (206) 328-2156                            
II                     II                            

l-ov-e,

Nuit



------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3)  Thee Stations ov thee Cross

FIRST STATION:  Jesus is condemned to Death.  (realization of what is to coum)

As are we all.  We must all coum to grips with thee fact that we are 
all mortal, our WORKS can achieve immortality, butter not our bodies. 
There is no proven afterlife -We must live our lives for thee NOW -thee
past is over, thee future expected, NOT promised.  NOW IS ALL WE HAVE. 
Don't deny yourself anything NOW in hopes ov payment LATER -if nothing
else it's BAD BUSINESS!

SECOND STATION:  Jesus is made to carry His Cross.  (erection)

We all have our crosses to bear, our guilt and fear, centered around our
most cherished dreams anddesires.  It was foretold that Christ would
carry his burden without coumplaint-and he did.  Butter no-one could
possibly have foretold that, two thousand yers later, ALL WESTERN
SOCIETY would still be staggering under HIS cross.

THIRD STATION:  Jesus falls the First Time.  (first penetration)

Orthodox Xianity is monistic- it believes GOD created a perfect world;
and Man, through "original sin", created evel.  Thus, thee fact that
evil and ugliness exists is "our" fault.  Thee laying ov blame seems
to be a Xian obsession.  There were "heretical" sects ov Xians, however,
who believed that an all-knowing, all-powerful, BENEVOLENT God would not
have laid such a devious trap for Man, therefore thee world must have
been created in its present, imperfect state by a lesser bing, Lucifer. 
They did not believe in the Fall.  Naturally, these evil idears were
punished and did not survive to influence Western Thought.

FOURTH STATION:  Jesus meets His sorrowful Mother.  (incest)

Christ's mother probably didn't want him to fulfill thee prophecies and
allow himself to be killed.  Butter He knew that it had to be.  Our
parents are always disappointed by some ov thee decisions we make, we
cannot possibly live up to their hopes and expectations, SHOULD not try.
We must live our own lives, not try to live out thee dreams ov our
parents.  It is your life, let fo ov thee control and pover your parents
hold over you.  You must fulfill your OWN destiny.

FIFTH STATION:  Simon of Cyrene helps Jesus to carry His cross.  (gay sex)

Simon ov Cyrene was a passerby recruited to help Christ carry His burden. 
Butter even had ten people helped, thee Cross would STILL be being
carried.  Xianity encourages "pious", "unselfish" do-rights to help us
carry all sort ov unwanted burdens.  It's high time we all dropped 
thee Cross. Only a fool would want to pick it up again.

SIXTH STATION:  Veronica wipes the Face of Jesus.  (hetero sex)

Veronica pitied Christ and wiped his face with her veil.  From thee sweat 
and blood a portrait ov Him was formed on thee veil.  One ov thee 
first sigils!  It seems that Xians have elevated this IMPRESSION ov Christ
to Godhead, forgetting that first and foremost, He was a MAN-He has
becoum a venerated Statue, while His corpse rots forgotten in a dusty
corner ov His Church.

SEVENTH STATION:  Jesus falls the Second Time.  (second penetration)

We all fall.  No-one can live thee stainless life Christ is said to have
live.  Whether in thought or in deed, we all "sin". IT is thee
repression and guilt, not divine retribution, which kills us.  Xianity
is able to perpetuate itself by demanding thee impossible ov its
adherents- perfection.  And then claims that only through repentence,
ie. guilt-can one achieve "salvation"

EIGTH STATION:  The women of Jerusalem weep over Jesus.  (orgy)

Christ is a crutch-snake oil for gullible old crones.  He is God ov thee
Weak, thee Sexless, the Fearful, thee Stagnant.  Thee SLAVES.  FREE
PEOPLE BOW BEFORE NO GOD, NEED NO PROMISE OV IMMORTATLITY, no divine
approval ov their actions.  WE LIVE FOR OURSELVES, FOR NOW.  We need 
no coumforting, it is coumpacency and ultimately stasis=DEATH.

NINTH STATION:  Jesus falls the Third Time.  (third pentration)

Thee Xian concept ov EVANGELISM-thee idear that it is a Xian's
RESPONSIBILITY to converrt non believers- is crucial to European 
imperialistic tendencies.  This morally justifies comquest, excusing it
by proclaiming that a "savage" (ie. nonXian) nation had to be converted
to Xianity.  Thee original Americans were killed not for their land 
and resouces, butter because to refused to accept "our" God.  This 
hypocritical lie has enabled Eurpean culture to dominate and nearly
destroy every other culture on earth.  We conquer, not to rob and
pillage, butter to "save".

TENTH STATION:  Jesus is stripped of His Garments.  (fetishism)

Who are we without our Garments?  Without our cars and condos?  Christ taught
us humility-what greater humiliation that to be stripped naked before 
a mocking crowd?  To be stripped maked is also to be deconditioned,
stripped ov guilt and fear, to becoum free to proclaim on's believes 
and dreams openly-and to begin to make them coum true.  Butter it can
not be begun until one has cast aside thee cumbersome rainment put upon
us by a two thousand year old book.

ELEVENTH STATION:  Jesus is nailed to the Cross.  (piercing)

ERECTION.  Xianity has made our bodies a Forbidden Fruit.  Physical 
expression ov sexual desire has been made "dirty", our genitals padlocked
by quilt and fear.  Fear ov retribution, divine or microbial, ov
ridicule and failure.  One ov thee most personal and special parts ov
our bodies is hels hostage by beliefs which simply DO NOT APPLY to this
Age.  Thee first step to Freedom lies in reclaiming our bodies, to
create inoneself and unencumbered sexuality.

TWELFTH STATION:  Jesus is raised upon the Cross and Dies.  (orgasm)

Thee Death ov Christ.  Thee Death ov Fear.  Ov Guilt.  Ov Control.  Thee
rebirth ov thee Whole Personality -free to live, to dream, to enact. 
Thee Christ in each ov us MUST die so that thee other parts can finally 
LIVE!!!
 
THIRTEENTH STATION:  Jesus is taken down from the Cross and
                         placed in the Arms of His Mother.  
                         (post orgasm glow)

WE MUST GET OFF THEE CROSS.   We have taken this story, this hypocritical 
half-truth as a Given, as our Law, for too long.  All Mankind must
reject this "solution" as thee ONLY one.  It is merely one symbolic
piece ov thee puzzle we call LIFE.  Get off ov your Cross, cast aside
thee two thousand year shackles that YOU choose to wear!  WE are no
longer forced to believe this Lie -We can believe or disbelieve as we
choose.  GET OFF THEE CROSS!!!

FOURTEENTH STATION:  Jesus is laid in the Sepluchre.
                     (the peace which passeth all understanding)

Xianity as a religion has outlived its relevence to our society.  
Change takes timE, butter it is time to retire Christ, put Him to sleep,
as one would a faithful old dog whose legs are too rickety to wald on. 
Not with malice, more with a tinge ov wistfulness at thee days when our
World was simpler, when this quaint little stroy ov Christ could 
imspire Europe into such acts ov both lofty Spirituality and savage, 
senseless cruelty.

                                XX
                            XXXXXXXXXX
                                XX
                              XXXXXX
                                XX    
                            XXXXXXXXXX
                                XX
   


Thee TEMPLE OV PSYCHICK YOUTH is actively working to end thee two
millenia ov emotional damages caused inpart by Xianity.  We are NOT
"another cult"  we believe in no gods and no devil.  We seek to liberate
thee human mind through guiltless sexuality and brutal self-examination.
Everyone who is REALLY free is already a Psychich Youth.  They just
don't know it yet.  If you are interested in finding out about our work
here in North America, as well as thee rest ov thee world, please send
some stampls to:

TOPYUS
BOX 18223
DENVER CO 80218
USA


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4)  "The Devil and a Dream"

One night I slept with the devil,
as we slept I had a dream:
   I stood on the slope of a mountain,
   a patchwork quilt of fields far below.
   Before me was a table of thick granite slabs,
   upon which there was a loaf of bread
   torn in two, and a puddle of blood.
   I took both halves of bread
   to soak up the blood,
   and as the last drop of blood was drank
   the loaf became whole again.
When I awoke the devil was gently smiling at me.
I related to him this my dream.
"I know...I was there." replied the devil.


                                    Coyote 131


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5)  "IMPURO"
 
Perche' tu tu sei osceno
Tu gesu' cristo sei impuro
Puoi ritenerti santo
Puoi ritenerti il solo
Ma tu tu sei impuro per me

"I was brought up a Xian.  I'd had to go to communion every week and
drink the blood.  The only good thing about it was to see these very 
respectable people kneeling and guzzling blood and eating human flesh. 
I remember being very disppointed when I was verry young when I found
out it wasn't real blood. I really felt cheated.  Maybe that's why 
I've been disappointed in the Xian Church ever since."

                              -Genesis P-Orridge


------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
6)  Temple Text III

Our stress on SELF discipline is important, it links the internal
methods of ritual to our approval and suggestion of other forms of
physical discipline to complement the mental/sexual ones.  Hence you
will often find that Initiates of the Temple will be engaged in such
outside activites as Marksmanship, Martial Arts, Swimming and so on as
an extension of the theory of maintaining and improving ones Focus and 
abilities.  The point is not the skill in itself, though we appreciate
the practical nature, in a society such as ours, of an ability to 
defend oneself and be fit, but the APPLICATION, the discipline intself. 
So one may be poor in terms of results, but excellent in terms of your 
genuine application to a sill that requires though, co-ordination and a 
degree of dedication.  A synthesis of physical action, thought, reflex
and an analysis of both yourself and a target (real and metaphorical).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       END TOPY ON-LINE TRANSMISSION 1.03