-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          |
                     -----|-----     TOPY ON-LINE TRANSMISSION 1.04           
                          |
                       ---|---       23 APRIL. 1991
                          |
                     -----|-----     FREQUENCY ZER0
                          |




                                     SEND submissions, suggestions, inquiries 
                                     to:kitsune@milton.washington.edu 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1)   Babble by COYOTE131
     2)   Thee Power ov Evil by Charles Manson
          3)   Television as Magick and Religion 
               4)   Commentary on TV Magick
                    5)   A Key to thee Temple

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1)Where has this month gone...thanks to Coyote 129 for typing up thee
essay by Manson...thee article on "TV as Magick..."is an excerpt from 
thee Temple Press book TV Magick...E picked it up at thee Chicago 
disconcert in '88 when it was written..."A Key to thee Temple" is and
excerpt from thee introduction to thee Grey Book...next transmission
will include thee first installment Hakim Bey's Chaos which will be
included as a serial.


                               NOTHING SHORT OV TOTAL...L-OV-E!!!
                               COYOTE 131



"Hate in a controlled way 
      is just as important as love."

      -Anton LaVey

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2)Thee Power ov Evil by Charles Manson (San Quentin, 1987)

  One cannot do evil unless they can do good - One must see beyond both to
understand the power - if all your life you live in green and one day not 
knowing any other color you're thrown in a world with nothing but yellow
and ask where would you want to live, yellow or green - 
  The Fear would run back to green - The evil free nature without fear 
would say yellow- Now, on the other hand if the mind was raised a lifetime
in between yellow and green and told yellow is bad Evil and green is good
and nice- the true free nature would want to touch green and feel the fear
and excitement of it. It would be new thrills and if taught guilt would go
back to yellow and punish itself within its thought patterns - On the 3rd
hand if all of a sudden from yellow and green all the colors were opened up
to that brain:

 1> It would go mad and lose all its patterns

 2> The free nature without fear would think it heaven.

  There are guidelines to Evil. After the illusion of good and bad as  
programmed are taken away from the brain with concepts of good and evil gone
you're in the brain of a child again- yet as the endless struggle goes on 
pushed and pulled by soulless grown ups trying to get the childs brain back
into money fear and whatever it is that each grownup has in that brain - 
REAL Evil comes into play - One must be able to create to be evil - Create
in such a way that it does not come back and fall upon the source. This is
done in circles 5-7-8; sometimes 9-13-33 and 50-390 can be used but to get 
that many people in the truth would be hard to do in the world as it is
today - to five five honest people over ten years would be no easy trip.
Honest to self in the world as it is would be called mentally retarded -
a fool, clown, etc.

  An illusion to some may be a death reality to others. A play on a stage 
may invoke madness somewhere else as it may circle the stage and be in the
streets behind the stage plays - There are looks that kill and motions of
a finger that can destroy much. The wave of a hand the wearing of a hat or the 
color of socks and shoes - the MIND is endless and set in total perfection
- PERFECTION - and beyond human brains stuck in green and yellow.

  There are colors yet to be created we each percieve in a balance of what
our minds are ready for - We say theer are only 92 of this or 44 winds 13 
moons but really what you call evil has no guidelines to its points of now
and its methods have never played out to an end because there is no End,
it only begins.

  Good ends in death. What would happpen to each brain if it found out that
it truly couldn't die - that in the most real of reals they could do anything
and never die. I'll tell you... Total Evil. Total madness holds guidelines in
the patterned brain; take the fear down and madness comes in to dance and
feast. Our true nature is evil but we are taught, trained, and programmed 
against our own nature by the fears of grownups. We are told its bad to lie
and not to lie yet we are always lied to.

  Until we believe everyone lies- then the circle of people that don't lie
and keep the knowledge buy and sell us in and for games left over by wars -
as most brains look up to death and call their fears love and vice versa. 
and fewer yet understand and do something else- A dog with big teeth hits 
a child with it tail when no grownups are looking. The dog sets the mind of
the child and understands humans and their brains more than the humans -
They play good guys because their food and life depends on humans -
but take them to the woods and they bite and kill rabbits, squrrels, and
reflect the other side of nature itself - Dogs like humans have lost the 
true sense of nature and survival. Human brains are programmed by past 
thoughts and locked to love their fear and fear their love. So beyond
Good and Evil there is only as much good as you can do for yourself - 
you can do no real good unless you can do evil - Why?
  
  Because if a brain is stuck in what's taught as good it can do no evil
or good because it is stuck with no choice and/or no real sense of either 
good and/or evil. A body's brain must be free from ego or in control of 
ego games in order to make the choice themselves - Doing good is easy.
Doing evil takes more effort more creative work and then one must know
how to stand back from the rewards. LIKE one must realize a perfect 
universe within oneself. Even if you realize there is no real self you can 
pick up a self and be a perfect love a perfect hate a balance finer than
a spiders web. You're the God who rules over that domain that world and 
anyone who breaks your will you put them on the evil side of the line -
The ones that will not respond o your life and have no respect for your
being then all your inner power is moving to balance that with the Evil.

  A personal judgment is NOT needed and a danger to the source of 
perfection must always be in the balance - Your low self or bad guy mirror
is used to reflect the bad and good to reflect the real self in a love - 
Like never sacrafice the center of your circle - Create circles outside 
the love and step from them leaving them to Ka - if you can be a spider
or transcend the human brain and put your life in a spider and you send that
spider to bite someone and they don't have that coming the spider will circle
and come back at you with a perfect balance. Like when that Hindu burnt me 
and I lived - their leader in India was shot and killed and 2500 people
were burnt up in a fire - His evil reflected back. The interplay of human
has little to do with the reality of real life - Everyone and everything is
controlled by something or someone else - Where evil and good starts and 
ends in balance and harmony beyond all the words and thought patterns.



------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3)   TV AS MAGICK AND RELIGION

Is the deification and worship of technology an excusable response to 
the automation of human perception?  During the Harmonic Convergence, one
New Ager took an television set with her to the top of Mt. Shasta, and
then stunned the other observers by announcing that the image of an
angel had manifested on the screen.  The next day, before a large 
media conglomeration, a repairman reactivated the phenomenon and
explained that it was due to a simple mechanical defect.  Press and
skeptics ate the story up with glee, but a pertinent point was missed. 
Who cares whether this videoized vision was caused by an otherworldly
being, an unconcious group-will force or a shorted wire?  Is not a the
human meurostructure, by which sensory data is received, but a complex
system of wiring and basic automated processes?  Spontaneous visual 
hallucianation used to be a purely human characteristic...
The future utilization of TV* to transmit spiritual experience is and 
Inevitable Reality.

*imagine thee use ov virtual reality for group long distance ritual
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4)  "TV Magick" a commentary by 131

After reading TV MAGICK in its entirity E became excited by thee concept 
ov creating a "video spell"...so E took a class on video editing to
access to thee equipment though rough editing can be done with camcorder
and vcr or two vcrs...me "script" was loosely based on a meditation
suggested by Crowley in "Magick in Theory and Practice" which involves
one asumming a coumfortable asana ("seat" or yogic posture for ewe
yoo-hoos) and visualizing ones death, decay and otherworldly experience
ov thee "Highest"...E viddied a friend who had been practicing yoga in
three asanas thee lotus, thee cobra, and thee death-posturer ov thee BUDDHA...
E viddied another in a morrocan hooded robe performing thee mudras for
thee evocation ov HORUS...E slowed down and strobed some ambient footage
ov an orthodox jewish cementary (more beautiful than those xian
cementaries with all those nasty crosses)...E cut these together in 3
second and 7 second intervals (thee # ov man and thee # ov thee divine 
respectively) with a soundtrack of Crowley's E-nochian chants, thee
sounds ov me first tattoo, ritual tibetan instruments, and a loop ov 
me at thee moment ov orgasm during a sigil...thee result is hip-gnostic...
a video-spell to transcend death by means ov sex magick...a video
sigil... everytime it is played releases its energy...and it was aired
on local cable access for thee viewing audience...using Dali's 
Paranoid Critical logic E view that thee more people who see this 
video-spell somehow enpower it...just as Dali paints his paraoia to 
make others paranoid thus relieving some of his paraonia...this
video-spell relieves some ov me anxiety ov death by staring it in thee 
face, kissing it on thee mouth and couming in in its eye!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
5)   Thee Key to thee Temple

We attempt to commune with spirits, to be friends ov thee Human Spirit.

We care for the infinite significance ov thee individual spirit and
personal moral responsibility and its development through experience.

We believe in thee total significance ov thee individual discovered
through familiarity with thee deepest instincts and explorations ov
destiny outside thee traps ov time.

We intend to engender moral freedom, spiritual freedom, sexual freedom,
and personal independence, to insist upon personal choice in all things.

We are endlessly involved in unravelling thee intertwined yet separate
threads ov Fate and Destiney to evolve a magickal system to maximise 
and enhance each individuals ability to recognise and focus on, 
thereby making real, that Destiny.

We accept responsibilty.  Gladly and with excitement and deliberate
ignorance ov thee outcoum.  We revel in mystery and surprise.  We bury 
ourselves in challenge and dreams.   We embrace all possibilities and 
impossibilities with joy and excitement.

We accept thee true nature ov life, the world as it is.  Flexible and
shifting, influx every moment, shaped by parallel levels that accept 
contradiction and inconsistency as inviolate qualities that generat
mystery and mastery.  We direct ourselves wherever we chose to go with
joy and abandon.

A New Era ov thee Magickal interpretation ov the World and existing in
it is couming.  An interpretation in terms ov WILL and Imagination
fueled by contact with intuition and instinct.

We are not seeking followers, we are seeking collaborators, Individuals
for a visionary Psychick alliance.

                                     END TOPY ON-LINE TRANSMISSION 1.04
------------------------------------------------------------------------------