--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       3E
                   33333EEEEE     TEMPLE OV PSYCHICK YOUTH
                       3E
                     333EEE       ON-LINE TRANSMISSION 1.09
                       3E
                   33333EEEEE     23 september, 1991
                       3E

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1)  Editorial
    2)  AMOUR FOU 
        3)  CHAOS
            4)  ASSASSINS by Peter Lamborn Wilson
                5)  Thee CAMPOUT
                    6)  Current Velocity by Funky Chicken 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1)  Here we are at another Equinox...and with a beautiful Full Moon to
light up thee Night as we touch our selves and make our selves wH0LE...
got some good news and some bad news...thee good news is CHAOS is back
in print (see 2) thee bad news is that we WILL no longer include it in
thee Transmissions...go buy it...it is X-cellent...

COYOTE=KALI

"Change only comes from the barrel of a gun!"  -Mao Tse Tung
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2)  Hakim Bey's CHAOS is reprinted in a larger book called _TAZ_ (Temporary
Autonomous Zone) by Autonomedia.  It contains all the shorter essays
which he's had published in zines as well as a lovely essay on pirate
utopias and autonomy.  Discovering bey's writings in a zine: always
a cause for celebration. finding a whole new book? jamboree in edge
city.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3)  CHAOS by Hakim Bey

Chapter 3

AMOUR FOU

Amour fou is not a Social Democracy, it is not a Parliament of Two.  
The minutes of its secret meetins deal with meanings too enormous 
but too precise for prose.  Not this, not that -its Book of Emblems
trembles in your hand.

Naturally it shits on schoolmasters & police, but it sneers at 
liberationists & ideologues as well -it is not a cleam will-lit 
room.  A topological charlatan laid out its corridors & abandoned 
parks, its ambush-decor of luminous black & membranous maniacal 
red. 

Each of us owns half the map -like two renaissance potentates we 
define a new culture with our anathematized mingling of bodies, 
merging of liquids -the Imaginal seams of our City-state blur in 
our sweat.

Ontological anarchism never came back from its last fishing trip.  
So long as no one squeals to the FBI, CHAOS cares nothing for the 
future of civiliaztion.  Amour fou breeds only by accident -its 
primary goal is ingestion of the Galaxy.  A conspiracy of 
transmutation.

Its only concern for the Family lies in the possibility of incest 
(Grow your own!"  "Every human a Pharoah!") -O most sincere of 
reader, my semblance, my brother/sister! -& in the masturbation 
of a child it finds concealed (like a japanese-paper-flower-pill)
the image of the crumbling of the State.

Words belong to those who use them only till someone else steals
them back.  The Surrealists disgraced themselves by selling amour
fou to the ghost-machine of Abstraction -they sought in their
uncosciousness only power over others, & in this they followed
de Sade (who wanted "freedom" only for grown-up whitemen to 
eviscerate women & children).

Amour fou is saturated with its own aesthetic, it fills itself to 
the borders of itself with the trajectories of its own gestures,
it runs on angels' clocks, it is not a fit fate for commisars &
shopkeepers.  Its ego evaporates in the mutability of desire, its 
communal spirit withers in the selfishness of obsession.

Amour fou involves non-ordinary sexuality the way sorcery demands 
non-ordinary consciousness.  The anglo-saxon post-Protestant world
channels all its suppressed sensuality into advertising & splits 
itself into clashing mobs:  hysterical prudes vs. promiscuous 
clones & former-ex-singles.  AF doesn't want to join anyone's 
army, it takes no part in the Gender Wars, it is bored by equal 
opportunity employment (in fact it refuses to work for a living),
it doesn't complain, doesn't explain, never votes & never pays
taxes.

AF would like to see every bastard ("lovechild") come to term &
birthed -Af thrives on anti-entropic devices -AF loves to be 
molested by children -AF is better than prayer, better than
sinsemilla -AF takes its own palm-trees & moon wherever it goes.
AF admires tropicalismo, sabotage, break-dancing, Layla & Manjun,
the smells of gunpowder & sperm.

AF is always illegal, whether it's disguised as a marriage or a 
boyscout troop -always drunk, whether on the wine of its own 
secretions or the smoke of its own polymorphous virtues.  It is
not the derangement of the senses but rather their apotheosis
-not the result of freedom but rather its precondition.
Lux et voluptas.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4)  "Secrets of the Assassins" by Peter Lamborn Wilson 
                                                     (an excerpt from SCANDAL)
 
I.  A Fatimid Chrestomathy

   On the seventeenth of Ramazan, 
   Hassan II, upon whose mention be peace...
   caused his followers to come to Alamut.  
   They raised four great banners...white
   red yellow & green...at the four corners 
   of the minbar.  At noon he came down
   from the fortress & in a most perfect 
   manner mounted the pulpit.  Baring his
   sword he cried:  O inhabitants of the
   worlds, djinn, men & angels!  Someone
   has come to me in secret from the Imam, 
   who has lifted from you the burden of 
   the Law & brought you to the Resurrection.
   Then he set up a table & seated the
   people to break the fast.  On that day 
   they showed their joy with wine & repose.



II.  The Chains of the Law

Metaphysics abandons the city:  all the greystone angels which decorate
the bridge come to life & flap heavily up into the low mist.  Everything
on either side of the skin falls subject to doubt.  Quick! reconstruct 
something to outlive this betrayal...

The cupbearer...call him the Saki for the sake of style...remains when
all else fails; and desire, the unhealed wound.  Sometimes a crack
opens between the two, like the rose I set between myself & the Saki.  
Everything else is losing its grip:  a spectral flight of luminous 
gulls across the low grey sky, over the bridge. 

And the Law abandons us, another ponderous escape of stone angels.  I
have no reason to love the Law...why should I?  Must I refuse the wine i
the cup & the shaman's embroidered robe, all to pay a price?  no
realization without Law, sin & hell? the city's redsmoke image!

Now darkness...in the darkness appears another angel...no way of knowing
if it can be trusted...certainly not carved of stone...it looks like 
the Saki...it filters into the imagination like trembling smoke.  It
opens this book, A Fatimid Chrestomathy:  on a certain day an angelic
yout ascended a throne on a mountaintop in lost Persia, announcing that
the chains of the Law have been broken. 

I have no idea who is speaking, who is being spoken to.  I swear by my
pen I do not believe or disbelieve.  The mist closes over the bridge
like tuberculosis.

                                                          (London)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4)TOPY Campout 1991

Listen...
listen...
listen...five beautiful wolf-angels spent eight days, where forest meets sea,
exploring a rocky beach, themselves and each other...
Why do the hike-in's always have to be such traumatic events? 
But we did get a feel for how untransversible rain forest can be when we
had to flee the incoming tide by scaling that hill...
think positive...
"that which does not kill me makes me stronger"-Nietsche
after staying that first night on a very imense beach...we scouted out a
more secluded spot three or four miles south of sands point trail head...
there overlooking a stretch of rocky beach, tide pools and "scaries"
we made our home for the next week...that very night we did our first
group rite...a rope ritual that jason led....tied left-hand to our
neighbor's right and right-hand to our neighbor's left...we sat in a
circle and contemplated how we had willingly bound ourselves to each
other and to TOPY which was represented by the rope...we moved out onto
the beach...testing our bounds, dancing and singing..."we circle around,
we circle around...wearing our long wing feathers...." then we cut thee 
physical rope which bound us together...but during our stay there we
left knotted lengths about our wrists...badges of our L-ov-E...
on tuesday night which was a very special evening E saw me first
northern lights...it began as a shimmering white sheet...but then it
spread rainbow rays upwards...covering Big Dipper completely with
red...thee colour ov KALI...on wednesday evening we held our first
sweat...we drummed and chanted songs to all our "relations"...heating
thee rocks to an eiry red-glowing, translucency...once inside we poured
water on thee rocks...thee waves ov steam were almost too much...facing
thee flames outside our lodge with me eyes closed E saw swirling,
dancing images similiar to using thee Dreamachine...thee combination ov
heat, chanting and deep breathing was very mind altering...it was as if
E was hollow and a flame which began in me perianum...burned higher
twirling around itself...up and out thee top ov me head...E then 
calmed myself enough to ask for water...but was incapable of holding
thee bottle...one ov me dear brothers had to for me...thee next sweat
was during thee day, thee stones seemed hotter and we burned
resin...thee waves ov steam were too much this timE and as E lay on me
back trying to breath...E realize one ov me greatest fears...being a 
vegetable from an accident or stroke...though a painful and draining 
experience...this second sweat was also very cleansing....friday... 
a day filled with "torchure and mootiltlation"...among which was our  
MOONDANCE (combination ball- and sun-dance)...bradley and E pierced
ourselves in thee chest above thee left nipple...mine entry and exit
points were about an inch apart and then line was pulled through...we
then pierced an apple each...threaded thee line through the apple and then 
tied thee end to a tree branch...as we danced thee others drummed...it
seemed timeless...but E watched thee moon rise above thee trees...at
first it hurt but as E begin to get thee apple bouncing about in thee
air thee pain left...thee bouncing apple was hypnotic to watch and thee
line was pulling me skin away from me chest by a couple ov inches...it
felt as if E was flying and at one point E felt as if a hand was
massaging my heart...and E was overcome by a great sense ov L-ov-E...
every thing was very vivid and colours seemed to become very bright and
shift in spectrum...we danced until thee line wore threww thee 
apples and then finally broke...afterwards we performed a group sigil...we 
agreed on a combination ov a group focal point, but to also incorporate our own 
sigils...so within a huge sigil which stretched from the edge ov thee
forest to thee sea...there six sections one for each ov our sigils and
an empty space for our dream lovers...we anointed each other and thee 
remainder was poured on thee sand for our dream-lovers as well as thee 
network as a whole and its sigil we had drawn, upon thee fire and into
thee sea as offerings to thee respective spirits...it was me first 
group sigil and though it could have been more dynamic it was still 
very powerful...thee following day our last full day at thee
campsite...a few of us decided to indulge in psychedelics...thee three
ov us took a hike up along thee beach...past an incredibly huge, flat, 
sandy beach which stretched out forever it seemed, thee entire length 
filled with jellyfish washed ashore...an LSD nightmare...past a rocky
point with beautiful tidal pools...past cambodian temples and gigantic 
bonsai tress...past a valkyrie with waist length golden braids...past
vince from france...past thee ravens' impenetrable fortress...we sat 
on thee beach and watched the sun dance on thee sea...E picked up a
white crystal stone which seemed to pulsate with its own inner 
light...E realized then that E was peaking so E kissed my brothers
goodbye and left them behind...bones bleached on thee beach...and 
began walking back to thee campsite...stopping twice...once to howl in
thee cave-tunnel and another when a lone man stopped and asked me 
where "we" were...it was hard to keep from laughing in his face...giving
an esoteric answer like, "we are standing in thee middle ov thee Pure
Land ov thee Fine Dharma" or cutting his throat...as E walked back E
shape changed...a gnarled old sage, a king, a bird flying, a snake 
slithering, a warrior, a monk, a mad man in an empty land...and
thee entire journey thee winds ov timE were howling...like flowers 
unfolding...when E arrived at thee campsite E could not talk, but E
wished to express to gabriel me L-ov-E for him...so while E hugged him E
blew in his ear & then he blew in me ear and it sounded just like thee
wind howling...and E knew on some level that he understood...a 
psychick transmission...which E cannot express adequately in words...
then E lay on thee beach watching thee sun's arc across thee sky, and as
E contemplated thee stange opacity ov thee sky and at thee same time 
its awesome infinitude...E was horrified and thee sky turned into a blue-black
face with three eyes...which took a great bite out ov me...E thought
about what E had read in thee Psychedelic Xperience and thee Tibetan
Book ov thee Dead and calmed myself by realizing that all things are
objects ov mind including this and that E should become one with my 
devourer...later E realized that this was essentially thee tantrik
evening ritual called "gcod"....E felt renewed...filled with Energy 
and capable ov doing whatever is needed to be done...E then played in
the forest for a while...watching the huge insects fly by with their 
rainbow coloured tails....at sunset E told gabriel that E realized 
that today was not thee last day that tomorrow would be quite an
adventure hiking out...and for that matter thee day after that would
also be filled with adventure and thee next day and so on and even though
each ov us might go our own separate paths each ov us would always be
right here at this hearth...with all ov our dream-lovers.  

a mad love from an empty land
Lung sTong sMyonpa (COYOTE 131)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Funkychicken actively studies empathogenic and entactogenic compounds.
Wearing Lizards and Ecstatic Shaman motifs, leaving the body.  Who scared
him into meat? Into shit forever?  Hassan I Sabbah whispers, the end of
words is at hand.  Unblinking lizard eyes? A theory? A Seduction? Only
the television idiot box Sign of a Decaying Order's death grip.  ISDN?
World Band?  With limitless possibilities we are frozen.  Rabbits in
headlights, Unless ourselvings we steal away.  24-hr assault with car
alarms, radio alarm clocks, 1 hour lunches, stop signs, high heeled shoes
dangled from feet.  Who Are?

If a great writer creates his predecessors, then MF shall be the undoing of
Derrida, Baudrillard, Hakim Bey, Peter Lambourn Wilson, Foucault, Bataille,
Wittgenstein, Bob Black, RAWilson, and Henry.

The Entire Path is achieved in a Single Step.

I AM The Real.

(current velocity)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            END TOPY ON-LINE TRANSMISSION 1.09