________________________________________________________________________________


				3E
                            33333EEEEE      TOPY
                                3E
                              333EEE        ONLINE TRANSMISSION 1.01
                                3E
                            33333EEEEE      FREQUENCY ZERO
                                3E

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
1)  Editorial by Coyote 131...........
    2)  TOPY SoCal Event anouncement......
        3)  An Excerpt on Chaos Magick........
            4)  Temple Text..........
                5)  Dadaist Disgust...........
                    

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

1)	Yes?
	Hello?
	Yes, hello.

	As you may ov notice Coyote 129 is not editor this time around...
Coyote 129 has moved to San Francisco, creating havoc and what not there...
hopefully Coyote 129 will find access to E-mail there so as to continue this 
project...but until then E will fill as best as E am able...during 
thee move and transfer ov thee account some ov thee files have been 
misplaced...so even though E had planned on using some ov thee mail 
including poems and articles to fill out this Transmission...E am not
able to...so at thee last minute E have put together some "found objects"...
such as thee article on Chaos Magick for which there had been many 
requests...please send in anything which you wish to share...by sharing
we "touch" one another...all help will be much appreciated.

	Our thanks go to Nuit...without whom E could N0T have done this.

	Our L-OV-E goes to Coyote 129...with whom our thoughts are.

						 may all sentient 
                                                 beings be happy
  				
 	 					 Coyote 131
    
	"I use orgasm to do stuff from healing myself 
		to creating familiars to do the housework!!"
			
					John Balance


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2)  One ov thee files lost was thee anouncement ov a TOPY SoCal E-vent... 
all E remember was that it was to occur on the 8th ov february and E
believe a multimedia E-vent at an 18+ club...E could be wrong...those 
interested in more info should contact E and E WILL let you know when 
E recieve more info. 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------


3)  THE MAGUS by Peter Carroll

	As a master of magic the Adept has some abilty to change 
himself and the reality which surrounds him at will.  The 
mark of a Magus however is that he is able to show other 
people how to change themselves into whatever they desire 
through the discipline of magic.  There are two main types 
of genuine Magus, the Apotheosis Magus and the Nemesis Magus. 
Additionally there is the Hierophant or pseudo-magus.  Each is
recognizable by the debris left in his wake.
	The Apotheosis Magus, sometimes known as the Harlequin, is
typically a master of internal disguise and often external disguise
also.  Frequently a person of fallstaffian tastes and grand gestures, 
he often distinguishes himself in a variety of human endeavors 
precisely because he has attained the freedom to be anything at all. 
Such freedom is often won only after a tremendous personal struggle to
repair the effects of a difficult start in life.  The Apotheosis Magus 
teaches by encouraging emulation and then often finally capping it 
with outrage.  His play, which is often never consciously formulated, is
to provide a role model for emulation by his accoltes and perhaps later
to drive them away and throw them back on their own resources, the
horizons of which have been expended by the encounter.  The essential
trick of the Apotheosis Magus is to present magic as a source of
boundless self confidence.  If he can convince his accolytes that they
are magicians capable of anything such beliefs will tend to become 
self fullfilling.  The Apotheosis Magus implies this through the triumph
of the will.  The Nemesis Magus implies it by showing that nothing is
true.  Both aim to set the imagination free.  Both are exponents of a
short and dangerous path which is inevitably strewn with casualities 
and misunderstandings.  Yet this is considered to be a small price to
pay if a few do win through to a more effective self definition.
	The continual setbacks, reverses and dry periods to which the
magical tradition is habitually prone are due to the frequent appearance
of the Hierophant or pseudo-magus figure.  The Hierophant always
presents himself as an exponent representative of something greater
then himself.  Out of the multiple of roles, identities and behaviors
that a person might adopt, the Hierophant presents a single model as 
an ideal.  This is particularly convenient for the Hierophant as he need
not be a perfect example of his own ideal although he must at least make
a show of trying in public.  Additionally, as it is he who defines the 
ideal, it is comparatively easy for him always to appear one step closer
to it than his accolytes.  Of course most Hierophants are merely
religious teachers who rarely venture into esoterics because of the 
potentially immense costs of public failure.   Yet there remains a 
depressingly long roll call of dishonor for occult Hierophants or 
psuedo-magi.
	The Hierophant inevitably teaches a system of magic that he has
either assembled from pieces or inherited.  The most enduring systems
are those which are highly complicated, and of low magical effectiveness.
They should furthermore be surrounded with hosts of petty 
exhortations.  Aleister Crowley dabbled in the Hierophant 
mode but was a supreme exponent of the Apotheosis Magus role.  Nobody of any 
potential adhered to him for long but many were ejected to find their
own path.  Crowley's writings are liberally salted with deliberate 
invitations to emulation and hero worship and as equally peppered with
devices designed to repel.  However their effect has never been quite 
as reliable as the presence of the magus himself was.
	The Apotheosis path is lonely, difficult and dangerous.  Such a
magus must be all things to all men and women.  As a matter of policy he
may be continually engaged in challenging the limits of what is 
socially acceptable.  He may have to resort to trickery to make himself
seem large enough to accomodate the totality of his followers'
expectations of him.  Any true friendship prevents him exercising his
life's function towards any person with whom it is shared and there will
be few of his peers with whom he can be completely open.  He will get
few thanks from society in general for his efforts and perhaps only a 
grudging respect from those whom he touches.  The tangible rewards of
this role are limited to those he can exact form his temporary
followers.  The Apotheosis Magus must be continually alert to avoid 
the backlash from his own lifestyle and those who have associated with
him.  He must always be one step ahead of the police raid.  He often
comes to a bad end.  Notable magi operating in this mode include
Cagliostro, Giordano Bruno, Paracelsus, and Gudjieff.
	The Nemesis Magus is a rare figure in the generally positive
esoteric climate of the west.  In the east the role is more common.  
The historical Buddha with his rules and restrictions to provide
accolytes with a slightly new identity to adhere to.  Rules concerning 
clothing, sex, and diet are particularly effective.  Such systems are 
indispensible to the Hierophant in his ceaseless quest for followers. 
The complexities of his systems guarantees protracted tuition and its 
comparative magical ineffectiveness ensures that few will be tempted to
go freelance.  Such systems are designed to create dependency.  New
accolytes are always welcome in such systems no matter how long their 
potential; for, in the absence of measurable progress mere numbers at
least provide some positive confirmation.
	Heresy and Schism always threaten the Hierophant's position and
system.  Unrealistic ideals and ineffectual means of attaining them 
will always attract criticism and attempts at revisionism.  Yet if these
can be avoided the Hierophant can look forward to extensive rewards from
his followers, the lucritive commercialisation of his system, and 
maybe postumous deification for what it's worth.
	Hierophantic magi frequently inherit the systems of the
predecessors.  The Apotheosis Magus and the Nemesis Magus rarely have
direct successors, although Hierophants frequently appear on the scene 
afterwards and reduce their works to a system. Pseudo magi outnumber the
real thing by a large margin.  It would be unseemly to mention any
living examples for whilst there is life there is hope of change;
however, Blatavsky, MacGregor Mathers, Dion Fortune, and Franz Bardon
provide examples of past occult Hierophants.
	A single test serves to separate the true Magus from the
Hierophant. The false magus is never able to give a simple meaningful 
explanation of what his teachings are supposed to do.  His
justifications are invariably verbose and tautological concatenations 
of indefinable terms.
	A host of petty Hierophants feast upon the debris of Crowley's
work without managing to enlarge themselves or their followers.  Austin 
Spare's works however have been largely resistant to sytematisation 
and slavish adherence for he left little that could be made into dogma. 
Yet Crowley and Spare between them exemplify the paradox facing the
genuine magus.  Speak and be misunderstood or keep silent and be
ignored.  Most, it appears, have chosen to speak knowing that the tricks
of the Hierophant are an indispensible medium but that these tricks 
ultimately obscure the message itself.  The hope is to blow some minds
in the meantime.

Either
The Apotheosis of the Self
Or
The Nemisis of the Self
Will set the Kia soaring
But promulgation begets systematisation
And the Apotheosis
Of Somebody Elses Self
Is for suckers.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4)  TEMPLE TEXT I
	
	To say in day-to-day life that something is "obvious" means
often than not, that one concedes a note of truth in exchange for a
tolerance of the usual hypocrisy and conditioning.  You can, for
example, make your opposite ADMIT as being obvious that there is no 
such thing as a theory that is absolutely True; that will not stop them
in any way from continuing to brandish their "Truths" as before.

	Their momentary concession passes by a sordid business in which
they buy their future peace of mind.  A life without questions.

	Hence, there is no higher aim than the OBVIOUS.  It is to
approach the closest to a Truth which we know to inaccessible but whose
gleam we can see. 

	The Obvious is a protection.  Not only dois it make people run
away, but it also deceives by its rapid commonness, and by the fact that
in Flat people's minds, whateverr is simple cannot be serious.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

5)  DADAIST DISGUST by Tristan Tzara

	Every product of disgust that is capable of becoming a negation
of the family is DADA; protest with the fists of one's whole being in  
destructive action:  DADA; acquaintance with all the means hitherto
rejected by the sexual prudishness of easy compromise and good manners:  
DADA; abolition of logic, dance of those who are incapable of creation:
DADA; everry hierarchy and social equation established for values by 
our valets:  DADA; every object, all objects, feelings and obscurities,
every apparaition and the precise shock of parallel lines, are means for
the battle of:  DADA; the abolition of memory:  DADA; the abolition of 
archaeology:  DADA; the abolition fo prophets:  DADA; the abolition of
the future:  DADA; the absolute and indiscutable belief in every god
that is an immediate product of spontaneity:  DADA; the elegant and 
unprejudiced leap from one harmony to another sphere; the trajectory of
a word, a cry, thrown into the air like an acoustic disc; to respect 
all individualities in their folly of the moment, whether serious,
fearful, timid, ardent, vigorous, decided or enthusiastic; to strip
one's church of every useless and unwiely accessory; to spew out like 
a luminous cascade any offensive or loving thought, or to cherish it
-with the lively satisfaction that it's all precisely the same thing-
with the same intensity in the bush, which is free of insects for the 
blue-blooded, and gilded with the bodies of archangels, with one's soul.
Liberty:  DADA! DADA!! DADA!!!  -the roar of contorted pains, the 
interweaving of contraries and of all contradictions, freaks and 
irrelevancies:  LIFE.  



------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REquests:  

Articles
Poems
Suggestions

Any info on:

Modern Occultism
Tattooing and Piercing Used In Ritual
Tantra
DADA
Initiation Rites 
	(especially in regards to the Nazi SS, New Guinea Tribes
	especially those who leap from those towers)
Chaos Magick
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
End TOPY ON-LINE TRANSMISSION 1.01