

             Practical Applications of the Chaossphere, 

                         by Fra.: Neonfaust


The Chaossphere is the prime working tool of Chaos magicians and the
Magical Pact of the Illuminates of Thanateros (IOT). The physical
Chaossphere has a vast range of applications of which a few shall be
briefly delineated here:

                Meditation employing the Chaossphere:

1, The Chaossphere is a symbol of the primeval Big Bang, it maybe
considered as a "frozen explosion" or even as "frozen information".
Regard the Chaossphere in a relaxed state, using the 180* stare if
you prefer. After a while shut your eyes and meditate on the
creative powers of Chaos. Chaos is not disorder let alone entropy
but rather the sum total of all possibillities incumbent in
existence and the unmanifest as a whole. In this manner you will
open the doors to the magickal multiversum for yourself.

2, Proceed as described above simultaneously meditating on
Nietzsches Zarathustra admonition:

"I say unto you: a man must have chaos yet within him to be able to
give birth to a dancing star. I say unto you: ye have chaos yet
within you."

You can have this statement read aloud to you by a partner or friend
during your meditation (or use a cassette recording). Experience
shows that this will greatly enhance the effect described above
under item number 1.

              Sigil charging employing the Chaossphere:

In lieu of other charging techniques you can project the magickal
sigil activation into the Chaossphere; banishing (preferably by
laughter) should follow immediately. Afterwards aim to forget the
whole magickal operation as thoroughly as possible to avoid
interference with the sigil`s operation by the unwanted rise of
consciousness of said operation/sigil and resultant inhibiting
psychic censor activity.

              Drawing energy employing the Chaossphere:

To be performed preferably after a meditation with the Chaossphere
(see above); regard the Chaossphere in a very intensive manner for
a while and stretch your palms in its direction. Now close your eyes
fully or halfway and suck in the powers of Chaos through your palms
while inhaling; exhaling, distribute the energies all over your body
or store them in the Hara centre (appr. three fingers` width below
the navel). You will probably experience these energies as a warm or
cool current, possibly as a slightly tingling sensation.

                Telepathy employing the Chaossphere:

During a partner experiment participants concentrate on the
Chaossphere (can also be performed with different participants
working on different locations); observe in a very relaxed state
messages, information and/or images rising from the unconscious.
Advanced magicians will find that this experiment can be performed
successfully via great distances even without participants
practising simultaneously. For Chaos (= pure information) is not
restricted by space and time.

Astral projection and lucid dreaming employing the Chaossphere:

1, Using the 180* stare regard the Chaossphere until you experience
a strong suction emerging from the sphere and pulling at your
"psychic entrails". This can frequently even be felt as a strong
physical sensation. Give way to this suction and let your astral
body emerge gradually. In the beginning this should be practised
partially, ie. the astral body portion extracted increasing with
every subsequent attempt. Thus, you may for example only project
half an arm the first time, the full at the next go etc. Finally the
astral body should emerge totally. Be aware that astral projection
may demand weeks` or months` dedicated practice to succeed,
depending on personal talent and inhibitions. Incidentally, the same
technique may be used to extract the magickal doppelganger, personal
daemons etc.

2, Immediately before dropping off to sleep visualize the
Chaossphere as accurately as possible and continue as described
above. This will induce either stronger astral projection or lucid
dreaming or both. This has proved to be an extremely powerful
exercise, but it is strongly suggested that you attempt it only
after having acquired a thorough working knowledge with the variaant
described above under item 1. (If you start off with mental working
chances are that you will very soon become severely sloppy without
even being aware of the fact; this may in turn inhibit control of
magickal powers and could lead to obsession.) You may also want to
wake yourself up at 4 a.m. and give this exercise a try for a few
minutes before dropping off to sleep again. Take care to note your
dreams next thing in the morning, do not - repeat: DO NOT! - rely on
your memory alone.

   Activating psychogones/chaoservitors employing the Chaossphere:

Use the Chaossphere as a "base camp" and "home" for
psychogones/chaoservitors and/or as a form of "launching pad". In
case of the former the Chaossphere presents itself as a high class
power receptacle and storage battery from which you can extract your
psychogones/chaoservitors into the Chaossphere as you would with
sigils to be activated; thus, the Chaossphere will become a gate to
the Sphere of Chaos for your magickal entities in which (and from
which) they will become active in accord with your bidding.

           Charging magical objects employing Chaossphere:

Magical objects such as talismans, amulets, fetishes etc. can be
charged with the aid of the Chaossphere by fastening them to the
sphere or its tip during a ritual, placing them under it etc. while
directing the energies of Chaos into the objects in question.

          Combat magic training employing the Chaossphere:

During combat magical training the Chaossphere is particularly
suited as a power storage battery out of which the magician draws
Magis or Mana. It is furthermore used as a combat target while
practising the kiai or other battle cries and martial arts Chi
techniques. In the same manner, magickal energy bolts, curses, words
of powers and strong affections are hurled emphatically into the
Chaossphere where they may be stored for further use.

                      Charging the Chaossphere:

Experience has shown that the Chaossphere does not demand a special
charging by ritual etc. Rather, the charging takes place alone by
its practical application. Should you desire to incorporate magickal
"condensator" fluids or solids (eg. as used for charging magickal
mirrors) this can easily be achieved by unscrewing the tips and
replacing them after filling in the condensator.

                                -oOo-


--------
Key entry by Fr. Apfleman
