                           THE FORTY-EIGHT CALLS
                                  OR KEYS
                            CROWLEY'S PHONETIC
                             AND DEE'S ENGLISH

                           (Pronounciation Key)
          All letters are sounded as in English with exceptions:

              A        ah         as in "fAther"
              C        k          as in "Cook"
              E        eh         as in "grEy"
              I        ee         as in "mEEt"
              O      long o       as in "jOke
              Q        k          as in "Qabalah"
              U      long u       as in "fOOl"
    

                               The First Key

      Ol sonuf vaoresaji, gohu IAD Balata, elanusaha caelazod:  sobrazod-ol
    Roray i ta nazodapesad, Giraa ta maelpereji, das hoel-qo qaa notahoa
    zodimezod, od comemahe ta nobeloha zodien; soba tahil ginonupe pereje
    aladi, das vaurebes obolehe giresam.  Causarem ohorela caba Pire:  das
    zodonurenusagi cab:  erem Iadanahe.  Pilahe farezodem zodenurezoda
    adana gono Iadapiel das home-tohe:  soba ipame lu ipamis:  das sobolo
    vepe zodomeda poamal, od bogira aai ta piape Piamoel od Vaoan!
    Zodacare, eca, od zodameranu!  odo cicale Qaa; zodoreje, lape zodiredo
    Noco Mada, Hoathahe I A I D A!
    
                               The First Key

      I rayng ouer you, sayeth the God of Iustice, in powre exalted above
    the firmaments of wrath:  in whose hands the Sonne is as a sword and
    the Mone as a throwgh thrusting fire:  which measureth your garments
    in the mydst of my vestures, and trussed you together as the palms of
    my hands:  whose seats I garnished with the fire of gathering, and
    bewtified your garments wth admiration.  To whome I made a law to
    govern the holy ones and deliuered you a rod with the ark of
    knowledg.  Moreouer you lifted vp your voyces and sware [obedience
    and faith to him that liueth and triumpheth] whose begynning is not,
    nor ende can not be, which shyneth as a flame in the myddst of your
    pallace, and rayngneth amongst you as the ballance of righteousnes
    and truth.  Moue, therfore, and shew yorselues: open the Mysteries of
    your Creation:  Be frendely vnto me:  for I am the servant of the
    same yor God, the true wurshipper of the Highest.


                              The Second Key

      Adagita vau-pa-ahe zodonugonu fa-a-ipe salada!  Vi-i-vau el!  Sobame
    ial-pereji i-zoda-zodazod pi-adapehe casarema aberameji ta ta-labo
    paracaleda qo-ta lores-el-qo turebesa ooge balatohe!  Giui cahisa
    lusada oreri od micalapape cahisa bia ozodonugonu!  lape noanu tarofe
    coresa tage o-quo maninu IA-I-DON.  Torezodu!  gohe-el, zodacare eca
    ca-no-quoda!  zodameranu micalazodo od ozodazodame vaurelar; lape zodir
    IOIAD!

                              The Second Key

      Can the wings of the windes vnderstand yor voyces of wunder, O you
    the second of the first, whome the burning flames haue framed within
    the depth of my Iaws; whome I haue prepared as Cupps for a Wedding, or
    as the flowres in their beawty for the Chamber of righteousnes.
    Stronger are your fete then the barren stone, and mightier are your
    voices then the manifold windes.  For you are become a buylding such
    as is not, but in the mynde of the All powrefull.  Arrise, sayth the
    First:  Move therfore vnto his Servants:  Shew your selues in powre:
    And make me a strong Seething:  for I am of him that liueth for euer.


                               The Third Key

      Micama!  goho Pe-IAD!  zodir com-selahe azodien biabe os-lon-dohe.
    Norezoda cahisa otahila Gigipahe; vaunudel-cahisa ta-pu-ime
    qo-mos-pelehe telocahe; qui-i-inu toltoregi cahisa i cahisaji em
    ozodien; dasata beregida od toreodul!  Ili e-Ol balazodareji, od aala
    tahilanu-os netaabe:  daluga vaomesareji elonusa cape-mi-ali vaoresa
    CALA homila; cocasabe fafenu izodizodope, od miinoagi de ginetaabe:
    vaunu na-na-e-el:  panupire malapireji caosaji.  Pilada noanu vaunalahe
    balata od-vaoan.  Do-o-i-ape mada:  goholore, gohus, amiranu!  Micama!
    Yehusozod ca-ca-com, od do-o-a-inu noari micaolazoda a-ai-om.
    Casarameji gohia:  Zodacare!  Vaunigilaji!  od im-ua-mar pugo pelapeli
    Ananael Qo-a-an.
    
                               The Third Key

      Behold, sayeth your god, I am a Circle on whose hands stand 12
    Kingdoms:  Sis are the seats of Liuing Breath:  the rest are as sharp
    sickles or the horns of death, wherein the Creatures of ye earth are to
    are not, except myne own hand which slepe and shall ryse.  In the first
    I made you Stuards and placed you in seats 12 of government.  giving
    vnto euery one of you powre successively ouer 456, the true ages of
    tyme:  to the intent that from ye highest vessells and the corners of
    your governments you might work my powre, powring downe the fires of
    life and encrease continually on the earth:  Thus you are become the
    skirts of Iustice and Truth.  In the Name of the same your God, lift
    vp, I say, your selues.  Behold his mercies florish and Name is become
    mighty amongst vs.  In whome we say:  Moue, Descend, and apply your
    selues vnto vs, as vnto the partakers of the Secret Wisdome of your
    Creation.


                              The Fourth Key

      Otahil elasadi babaje, od dorepaha gohol:  gi-cahisaje auauago
    coremepe peda, dasonuf vi-vau-di-vau?  Casaremi oeli MEAPEME sobame agi
    coremepo carep-el:  casaremeji caro-o-dazodi cahisa od vaugeji; dasata
    ca-pi-mali cahisa ca-pi-ma-on:  od elonusahinu cahisa ta el-o CALAA.
    Torezodu nor-quasahi od fe-caosaga:  Bagile zodir e-na-IAD:  das iod
    apila!  Do-o-a-ipe quo-A-AL, zodacare!  Zodameranu obelisonugi resat-el
    aaf nor-mo-lapi!
    
                              The Fourth Key

      I haue set my fete in the sowth and haue loked abowt me, saying, are
    not the Thunders of encrease numbred 33 which raigne in the Second
    Angle?  vnder whome I haue placed 9639 whome none hath yet numbred but
    one, in whome the second beginning of things are and wax strong, which
    allso successively are the number of time:  and their powres are as
    the first 456.  Arrise, you Sonns of pleasure, and viset the earth:
    for I am the Lord your God which is, and liueth.  In the name of the
    Creator, Move and shew yourselues as pleasant deliuerers, That you may
    praise him amongst the sonnes of men.


                               The Fifth Key

      Sapahe zodimii du-i-be, od noasa ta qu-a-nis, adarocahe dorepehal
    caosagi od faonutas peripeso ta-be-liore.  Casareme A-me-ipezodi
    na-zodaretahe AFA; od dalugare zodizodope zodelida caosaji tol-toregi;
    od zod-cahisa esiasacahe El ta-vi-vau; od iao-d tahilada das hubare
    PE-O-AL; soba coremefa cahisa ta Ela Vaulasa od Quo-Co-Casabe.  Eca
    niisa od darebesa quo-a-asa:  fetahe-ar-ezodi od beliora:  ia-ial
    eda-nasa cicalesa; bagile Ge-iad I-el!

                               The Fifth Key

      The mighty sownds haue entred in ye 3th Angle and are become as
    oliues in ye oliue mownt, looking wth gladnes vppon the earth and
    dwelling in the brightnes of the heuens as contynuall cumforters.  vnto
    whome I fastened pillers of gladnes 19 and gaue them vessels to water
    the earth wth her creatures:  and they are the brothers of the first
    and second and the beginning of their own sea[ts] which [are garnished
    with continually burning lamps] 69636 whose numbers are as the first,
    the endes, and ye contents of tyme.  Therfore come you and obey your
    creation:  viset vs in peace and cumfort:  Conclude vs as receiuers of
    yor mysteries:  for why?  Our Lord and Mr is all One.



                               The Sixth Key

      Gahe sa-div cahisa EM, micalazoda Pil-zodinu, sobam El haraji mir
    babalonu od obeloce samevelaji, dalagare malapereji ar-caosaji od
    ACAME canale, sobola zodare fabeliareda caosaji od cahisa aneta-na
    miame ta Viv od Da.  Daresare Sol-petahe-bienu Be-ri-ta od zodacame
    ji-micalazodo:  sob-ha-atahe tarianu luia-he od ecarinu MADA Qu-a-a-on!
    
                               The Sixth Key

      The spirits of ye 4th Angle are Nine, Mighty in the firmament of
    waters:  whome the first hath planted a torment to the wicked and a
    garland to the righteous:  [g]iving vnto them fyrie darts to vanne the
    earth and 7699 continuall Workmen whose courses viset with cumfort the
    earth and are in government and contynuance as the second and the
    third.  Wherfore harken vnto my voyce:  I haue talked of you and I move
    you in powre and presence:  whose Works shalbe a song of honor and the
    praise of your God in your Creation.


                              The Seventh Key

      Ra-asa isalamanu para-di-zoda oe-cari-mi aao iala-piregahe Qui-inu.
    Enai butamonu od inoasa NI pa-ra-diala.  Casaremeji ujeare cahirelanu,
    od zodonace lucifatianu, caresa ta vavale-zodirenu tol-hami.  Soba
    lonudohe od nuame cahisa ta Da o Desa vo-ma-dea od pi-beliare itahila
    rita od miame ca-ni-quola rita!  Zodacare!  Zodameranu!  Iecarimi
    Quo-a-dahe od I-mica-ol-zododa aaiome.  Bajireje papenore idalugama
    elonusahi--od umapelifa vau-ge-ji Bijil--IAD!

    
                              The Seventh Key

      The East is a howse of virgins singing praises amongst the flames of
    first glory wherein the Lord hath opened his mowth:  and they are
    become 28 liuing dwellings in whome the strength of man reioyseth, and
    they are apparailed wth ornaments of brightnes such as work wunders on
    all creatures.  Whose Kingdomes and continuance are as the Third and
    Fowrth Strong Towres and places of cumfort, The seats of Mercy and
    Continuance.  O you Servants of Mercy:  Moue, Appeare:  sing prayses
    vnto the Creator and be mighty amongst vs.  For to this remembrance is
    given powre and our strength waxeth strong in our Cumforter.


                              The Eighth Key

      Bazodemelo i ta pi-ripesonu olanu Na-zodavabebe OX.  Casaremeji
    varanu cahisa vaugeji asa berameji balatoha:  goho IAD.  Soba miame
    tarianu ta Iolacis Abaivoninu od azodiajiere riore.  Irejila cahisa da
    das pa-aox busada Caosago, das cahisa od ipuranu telocahe cacureji
    oisalamahe lonucaho od Vovina carebafe?  NIISO!  bagile avavago hohon.
    NIISO!  bagile momao siaionu, od mabezoda IAD oi asa-momare poilape.
    NIIASA!  Zodameranu ciaosi caosago od belioresa od coresi ta a
    beramiji.
   
                              The Eighth Key

      The Midday, the first, is as the third heaven made of Hiacynet
    Pillers 26:  in whome the Elders are become strong wch I haue prepared
    for my own righteousnes sayth the Lord:  whose long contynuance shall
    be as bucklers to the stowping Dragon and like vnto the haruest of a
    Wyddow.  How many ar there which remayn in the glorie of the earth,
    which are, and shall not see death, vntyll this howse fall and the
    Dragon synck?  Come away, for the Thunders haue spoken:  Come away, for
    the Crownes of the Temple and the coat of him that is, was, and shalbe
    crowned, are diuided.  Come, appeare to the terror of the earth and to
    our comfort and of such as are prepared.


                               The Ninth Key

      Micaoli beranusaji perejala napeta ialapore, das barinu efafaje PE
    vaunupeho olani od obezoda, soba-ca upaahe cahisa tatanu od tarananu
    balie, alare busada so-bolunu od cahisa hoel-qo ca-no-quodi CIAL.
    Vaunesa aladonu mom caosago ta iasa olalore ginai limelala.  Amema
    cahisa sobra madarida zod cahisa!  Ooa moanu cahisa avini darilapi
    caosajinu:  od butamoni pareme zodumebi canilu.  Dazodisa etahamezoda
    cahisa dao, od mireka ozodola cahisa pidiai Colalala.  Ul ci ninu a
    sabame ucime.  Bajile?  IAD BALATOHE cahirelanu pare!  NIISO!  od upe
    ofafafe; bajile a-cocasahe icoresaka a uniji beliore.
    
                               The Ninth Key

      A mighty garde of fire wth two edged swords flaming (which haue Viols
    8 of Wrath for two tymes and a half:  whose wings are of wormwood and
    of the marrow of salt,)  haue stled their feete in the West and are
    measured with their Ministers 9996.  These gather vp the moss of the
    earth as the rich man doth his threasor:  cursed ar they whose
    iniquities they are in their eyes are milstones greater then the earth,
    and from their mowthes rune seas of blud:  their heds are covered with
    diamond, and vppon their heds are marble sleus.*  Happie is he on whome
    they frown not.  For why?  The God of righteousnes reioyseth in them!
    Come away, and not your Viols, for the tyme is such as requireth
    cumfort.

      * "Upon their hands are marble sleeves."


                               The Tenth Key

      Coraxo cahisa coremepe, od belanusa Lucala azodia-zodore paebe Soba
    iisononu cahisa uirequo OPE copehanu od racalire maasi bajile caosagi;
    das yalaponu dosiji od basajime; od ox ex dazodisa siatarisa od
    salaberoxa cynuxire faboanu.  Vaunala cahisa conusata das DAOX cocasa
    ol Oanio yore vohima ol jizodyzoda od eoresa cocasaji pelosi molui das
    pajeipe, laraji same darolanu matorebe cocasaji emena.  El pataralaxa
    yolaci matabe nomiji mononusa olora jinayo anujelareda.  Ohyo!  ohyo!
    ohyo!  ohyo! ohyo! ohyo!  noibe Ohyo!  caosagonu!  Bajile madarida i
    zodirope cahiso darisapa!  NIISO!  caripe ipe nidali!

                               The Tenth Key

      The Thunders of Iudgment and Wrath are numbred and are haborowed in
    the North in the likenes of an oke, whose branches are Nests 22 of
    Lamentation and Weaping layd vp for the earth, which burn night and
    day:  and vomit out the heds of scorpions and live sulphur myngled with
    poyson.  These be the Thunders that 5678 tymes in ye 24th part of a
    moment rore [with a hundred mighty earthquakes and a thousand] tymes as
    many surges.  which rest not neyther know any echoing* tyme here.  One rock bringeth furth 1000, euen as the hart of man doth
    his thowghts.  Wo, Wo, Wo, Wo, Wo, Wo, yea Wo be to the earth!  For her
    iniquitie is, was and shalbe great!  Come awaye:  but not your noyses.

      * "Any echoing time between."


                             The Eleventh Key

      Oxiayala holado, od zodirome O coraxo das zodiladare raasyo.  Od
    vabezodire cameliaxa od bahala:  NIISO!  salamanu telocahe!  Casaremanu
    hoel-qo, od ti ta zod cahisa soba coremefa i ga.  NIISA!  bagile
    aberameji nonucape.  Zodacare eca od Zodameranu!  odo cicale Qaa!
    Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe I A I D A!

                             The Eleventh Key

      The Mighty Seat groaned and they were 5 thunders which flew into the
    East:  and the Egle spake and cryed wth a lowde voyce, Come awaye:
    [and they gathered themselues together and became] the howse of death
    of whome it is measured and it is as they are, whose number is 31.
    Come away, for I haue prepared for you.  Moue therfore, and shew your
    selues:  open the Mysteries of your Creation:  be frendely vnto me:
    for I am the servant of ye same yor God, the true wurshipper of the
    Highest.


                              The Twelfth Key

      Nonuci dasonuf Babaje od cahisa OB hubaio tibibipe:  alalare ataraahe
    od ef!  Darix fafenu MIANU ar Enayo ovof!  Soba dooainu aai i VONUPEHE.
    Zodacare, gohusa, od Zodameranu.  Odo cicale Qaa!  Zodoreje, lape
    zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe I A I D A!

                              The Twelfth Key

      O you that rayng in the Sowth and are 28, The Lanterns of Sorrow,
    bynde vp yor girdles and viset vs.  Bring down your trayn 3663 that the
    Lord may be magnified, whose name amongst you is Wrath.  Moue, I say,
    and shew yor selues:  open ye Mysteries of yor Creation:  be frendely
    vnto me:  for I am the servant of the same yor God, the true wurshipper
    of the Highest.


                            The Thirteenth Key

      Napeai Babajehe das berinu VAX ooaona larinuji vonupehe doalime:
      conisa olalogi oresaha das cahisa afefa.  Micama isaro Mada od
      Lonu-sahi-toxa, das ivaumeda aai Jirosabe.  Zodacare od Zodameranu.
      Odo cicale Qaa!  Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe
      I A I D A.

                            The Thirteenth Key

      O you swords of the Sowth which haue 42 eyes to styr vp the wrath of
    synn, making men drunken which are empty.  Behold the promise of God
    and his powre which is called amongst you a Bitter Sting.  Moue and
    shew your selues:  open the Mysteryes of yor Creation:  be frendly vnto
    me:  for I am the servant of ye same yor God, the true wurshipper of
    the Highest.


                            The Fourteenth Key

      Noroni bajihie pasahasa Oiada!  das tarinuta mireca OL tahila dodasa
    tolahame caosago Homida:  das berinu orocahe QUARE:  Micama!  Bial'
    Oiad; aisaro toxa das ivame aai Balatima.  Zodacare od Zodameranu!  Odo
    cicale Qaa!  Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe I A I D A.

                            The Fourteenth Key

      O you sonns of fury, the dowghters of the lust, which sit vppon 24
    seats, vexing all creatures of the earth with age, which haue vnder
    you 1636:  behold the Voyce of God, the promys of him which is called
    amongst you Furye or Extreme Iustice.  Moue and shew yor selues:  open
    the Mysteries of yor Creation:  be frendely vnto me:  for I am the
    servant of the same your God, the true wurshipper of the Highest.


                             The Fifteenth Key

      Hasa!  tabaanu li-El pereta, casaremanu upaahi cahisa DAREJI; das
    oado caosaji oresacore:  das omaxa monasaci Baeouibe od emetajisa
    Iaiadix.  Zodacare od Zodameranu!  Odo cicale Qaa.  Zodoreje, lape
    zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe I A I D A.

                             The Fifteenth Key

      O thow the governor of the first flame vnder whose wyngs are 6739
    which weaue the earth wth drynes:  which knowest the great name
    Righteousnes and the Seale of Honor.  Moue and shew yor selues:  open
    the Mysteries of yor Creation:  be frendely vnto me:  for I am the
    servant of the same your God, the true wurshipper of the High[e]st.


                             The Sixteenth Key

      Ilasa viviala pereta!  Salamanu balata, das acaro odazodi busada, od
    belioraxa balita:  das inusi caosaji lusadanu EMODA:  das ome od
    taliobe:  darilapa iehe ilasa Mada Zodilodarepe.  Zodacare od
    Zodameranu.  Odo cicale Qaa:  zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada,
    hoathahe I A I D A.

                             The Sixteenth Key

      O thow second flame, the howse of Iustice, which hast thy begynning
    in glory and shalt cumfort the iust:  which walkest on the eart[h] with
    feete 8763 that vnderstand and separate creatures:  great art thow in
    the God of Stretch Furth and Conquere.  Moue and shew yor selues:  open
    the Mysteries of yor Creation:  be frendely vnto me:  for I am the
    servant of the same your God, the true wurshipper of the Highest.


                            The Seventeenth Key

      Ilasa dial pereta!  soba vaupaahe cahisa nanuba zodixalayo dodasihe
    od berinuta FAXISA hubaro tasataxa yolasa:  soba Iad I Vonupehe o
    Uonupehe:  aladonu dax ila od toatare!  Zodacare od Zodameranu!  Odo
    cicale Qaa!  Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe I A I D A.

                            The Seventeenth Key

      O thow third flame whose whose wyngs are thorns to styr vp vexation
    and hast 7336 Lamps Liuing going before the[e], whose God is Wrath in
    Angre, gyrd vp thy loynes and harken.  Moue and shew yor selues:  open
    the Mysteries of yor Creation:  be frendely vnto me:  for I am the
    servant of the same your God, the true wurshipper of the Highest.


                            The Eighteenth Key

      Ilasa micalazoda olapireta ialpereji beliore:  das odo Busadire Oiad
    ouoaresa caosago:  casaremeji Laiada ERANU berinutasa cafafame das
    ivemeda aqoso adoho Moz, od maoffasa.  Bolape como belioreta pamebeta.
    Zodacare od Zodameranu!  Odo cicale Qaa.  Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco
    Mada, hoathahe I A I D A.

                            The Eighteenth Key

      O thow mighty Light and burning flame of cumfort which openest the
    glory of God to the center of the erth, in whome the Secrets of Truth
    6332 haue their abiding, which is called in thy kingdome Ioye and not
    to be measured:  be thow a wyndow of cumfort vnto me.  Moue and shew
    your selues:  open the Mysteries of your Creation:  be frendely vnto
    me:  for I am the servant of the same your God, the true wurshipper of
    the Highest.


                          The Call or Key of the
                              Thirty Aethyrs

      Madariatza das perifa LIL cahisa micaolazoda saanire caosago od
    fifisa balzodizodarasa Iaida.  Nonuca gohulime:  Micama odoianu MADA
    faoda beliorebe, soba ooaona cahisa luciftias peripesol, das aberaasasa
    nonucafe netaaibe caosaji od tilabe adapehaheta damepelozoda, tooata
    nonucafe jimicalazodoma larasada tofejilo marebe yareryo IDOIGO; od
    torezodulape yaodafe gohola, Caosaga, tabaoreda saanire, od
    caharisateosa yorepoila tiobela busadire, tilabe noalanu paida oresaba,
    od dodaremeni zodayolana.  Elazodape tilaba paremeji peripesatza, od ta
    qurelesata booapisa.  Lanibame oucaho sayomepe, od caharisateosa
    ajitoltorenu, mireca qo tiobela Iela.  Tonu paomebeda dizodalamo asa
    pianu, od caharisateosa aji-latore-torenu paracahe a sayomepe.
    Coredazodizoda dodapala od fifalazoda, lasa manada, od faregita bamesa
    omaoasa.  Conisabera od auauotza tonuji oresa; catabela noasami
    tabejesa leuitahemonuji.  Vanucahi omepetilabe oresa!  Bagile?  Moooabe
    OL coredazodizoda.  El capimao itzomatzipe, od cacocasabe gosaa.
    Bajilenu pii tianuta a babalanuda, od faoregita teloca uo uime.
      Madariiatza, torezodu!!!  Oadariatza orocaha aboaperi!  Tabaori
    periazoda aretabasa!  Adarepanu coresata dobitza!  Yolacame periazodi
    arecoazodiore, od quasabe qotinuji!  Ripire paaotzata sagacore!  Umela
    od perdazodare cacareji Aoiveae coremepeta!  Torezodu!  Zodacare od
    Zodameranu, asapeta sibesi butamona das surezodasa Tia balatanu.  Odo
    cicale Qaa, od Ozodazodame pelapeli IADANAMADA!

                          The Call or Key of the
                              Thirty Aethyrs

      O you heuens which dwell in the First Ayre, the mightie in the partes
    of the Erth, and execute the Iudgment of the Highest!  To you it is
    sayd, Beholde the face of your God, the begynning of cumfort, whose
    eyes are the brightnes of the hevens:  which prouided you for the
    gouernment of the Erth and her vnspeakable varietie, furnishing you
    wth a powr vnderstand to dispose all things according to the providence
    of Him that sitteth on the Holy Throne, and rose vp in the begynning,
    saying: the Earth let her be gouerned by her parts and let there be
    diuision in her, that the glory of hir may be allwayes drunken and
    vexed in it self.  Her course, let it ronne wth the hevens, and as a
    handmayd let her serve them.  One season let it confownd an other, and
    let there be no creature vppon or within her the same:  all her members
    let them differ in their qualities, and let there be no one creature
    aequall wth an other:  the reasonable Creatures of the Erth let them
    vex and weede out one an other, and the dwelling places let them forget
    thier names:  the work of man, and his pomp, let them be defaced: his
    buyldings let them become caves for the beasts of the feeld.  Confownd
    her vnderstanding with darknes.  For why?  It repenteth me I made Man.
    One while let her be known and an other while a stranger:  bycause she
    is the bed of a Harlot, and the dwelling place of Him that is Faln.  O
    you heuens arrise:  the lower heuens vnder neath you, let them serve
    you!  Gouern those that govern:  cast down such as fall!  Bring furth
    with those that encrease, and destroy the rotten!  No place let it
    remayne in one number:  ad and diminish vntill the stars be numbred!
      Arrise, Move, and Appere before the Couenant of his mowth, which he
    hath sworne vnto vs in his Iustice.  Open the Mysteries of your
    Creation:  and make vs partakers of Vndefyled Knowledg.

