The Book of the Seniors
by Benjamin Rowe

Copyright 1986, 1992 by Benjamin Rowe

Permission is granted to distribute this work in 
electronic form, with the these conditions:
1) No fees may be charged for the distribution or 
transmission of this document, other than standard 
charges for use of transmission lines or electronic 
media. Distribution for commercial purposes or by 
commercial entities is specifically prohibited.
2) All copies distributed must contain the complete, 
unedited text of the original document and this 
copyright notice.
3) Persons acquiring the electronic version of this 
document may make one printed copy for their personal 
use.

All other rights are retained by the author.





Introduction

This book is part of the record of an extended 
magickal working involving the Tablet of Earth from 
John Dee's Enochian magickal system. This section 
presents the results of a series of invocations of the 
Seniors from that Tablet. The record is complete and is 
presented exactly as it was recorded at the time of the 
invocations, without editing.

The invoking names of the Seniors are derived from 
the Great Central Cross of the Tablet by reading 
outwards horizontally and vertically from the two 
centermost squares of the Tablet. In the theory of the 
Enochian system, they represent the forces of the 
planets within the element, and are considered to be 
Briatic in nature. With the Elemental King, who 
represents the Sun and is a link between the Briatic 
and the Yetziratic levels of the Tablet, they bind 
together all the forces within the Tablet. 
Additionally, the Seniors are said to provide knowledge 
specifically concerning "human affairs", and the 
present record confirms that in a broad sense.

A somewhat different method of presentation is 
used here than in the previous invocations of the 
series that were described in Touring the Earth Tablet. 
In that work, each of the "Kerubic" squares of the 
Tablet was examined individually. The visions were 
deliberately forced into a highly visual and symbolic 
form, along the lines set down in the Golden Dawn's 
rules for astral workings. While these restrictions 
made it easy to establish the validity and consistency 
of the visions, it also forced the information given by 
the Kerubic forces into an extremely cumbersome and 
hard-to-read form.

In the current series, no effort has been made to 
make the visions conform to the baroque style touted by 
the Golden Dawn. Rather, the Seniors were allowed to 
present themselves in their own manner, except for a 
brief presentation of a telesmatic image as a check of 
validity. Attempting to examine each square 
individually would have been much too cumbersome. The 
result has been much more direct and readable than in 
the previous case.

Despite the looser form, the results of these 
invocations are entirely consistent with the previous 
invocations of the working. Taken together, they 
present a developing system of symbolism related to the 
planet Earth, the various modes of magickal initiation, 
and man's place on Earth and in the universe. 

The story presented by the Seniors is a history of 
the spiritual development of man on Earth, as viewed by 
the being who is the life of the Earth and those 
appointed to direct that development. The main 
characters are those beings whose actions are the root 
of the mythos of the gods Set and Horus, and the plot 
describes their conflicts as they contended for control 
of man's evolution over eighty million years. With the 
earlier works in this series, it also presents a 
reconstruction of the original mythos of Set, from 
before the time when priests of Horus and Osiris 
demolished his temples and turned him into a devil-god 
for their own forms of religion. 

This mythos is not a step backward in time, but a 
re-formulation in terms of the incoming energies of 
this present day, when the equinox is moving into the 
constellation of Aquarius. The philosophy presented is 
entirely consistent with the basic tenets of Thelema as 
originally stated in Liber AL vel Legis, and those 
later elaborations presented by C.S. Jones (Frater 
Achad). 

The energies of the sign of Aquarius are vastly 
different from the energies of the previous aeon, which 
was under the sign of Pisces. The Piscean age was 
characterized by highly structured, imposed systems of 
religion and magick, presented through the work of 
rigid hierarchical organizations. In that age, the 
individual was expected to subordinate himself to the 
work and symbolism of the group, and to accept what was 
given to him on faith. Man was seen as being at the 
bottom of the spiritual hierarchy, and was therefore 
subordinate to all of the spiritual forces. He could 
only contact them through faith and supplication, in 
effect begging them for a bit of wisdom.

The Aquarian energies, on the other hand, are 
extremely individualistic. The ruling planet, Uranus, 
and the exalted planet, Mercury, show that in this new 
time individuals can achieve magickal and spiritual 
success entirely through their own efforts, without the 
aid of any outside force. The results of their work 
will be proportional to the effort they put into it. 
Where Mercury, knowledge, was in its detriment in 
Pisces, here it is at its height. Thus knowing and 
self-will, and not submission and faith, are now to be 
the key to initiation.

Under the Aquarian energies, each man contributes 
to the group work by doing his own work and discovering 
his own Will, without reference to the work of others. 
The links between the work of one person and another 
will come naturally, as a consequence of the internal 
connections that exist between all things, and not as 
an externally-imposed set of formulae. The connections 
mentioned above are one example of this principle. No 
doubt many more examples will arise in coming years. 

Following this principle, I would like to 
encourage the reader to examine this work and all such 
works with a critical eye, to not accept it as 
literally true, and not accept it as symbolic truth 
unless it fits your own views of the spirit. Perhaps 
another way is better for you. There is more than 
enough room for any number of views. 

Before concluding, a few explanatory remarks might 
be in order.

Where reference to the cabalistic Tree of Life is 
made in this work, it is always to the revised version 
discovered and presented by Frater Achad. I have 
personally found this form of the Tree to be much more 
productive than the old G.D. version. The extended 
working of which this paper is a part has demonstrated 
that it is not merely a curiousity, but a workable and 
very effective system of symbolism, at least the equal 
of the older version of the Tree. But the use of this 
alternate system should not deter users of the older 
Tree from reading this book. The essential aspects of 
the work are not dependent on the Tree at all, and can 
be applied to many different systems.

There is also the question of identities to be 
considered. The reader might wonder, as he examines 
this work, just who the Seniors are speaking to. It 
would be absurd to think that the scribe, the fellow 
whose name appears in the copyright notice, is the one 
who did all the things the Seniors attribute to the one 
they speak to. He is all too human, very much a child 
of his times, and more than a little bit of a fool. But 
if not him, then who?

In the words of the Seniors, the scribe is part of 
a tripartite being, a "man who is a mage who is a god". 
As a general rule, when the first person singular is 
used in this work, it is a blend of the scribe and the 
mage, in varying proportions, who speaks. The 
distinction between them is never too clear to the 
scribe, and it is becoming less clear as this working 
progresses. But the more doubtful and uncertain the "I" 
who speaks appears, the greater the proportion of the 
scribe in the mixture.

But when the Seniors speak, they are generally 
referring to the actions of the mage, the god, or a 
blending of the two. The sole exception is when they 
refer to events occurring on the physical plane during 
the lifetime of the scribe. 

Perhaps the best view to take on this subject is 
to consider each aspect as a pseudo-autonomous subset 
of the next highest aspect. That is, each is a 
projection of the will of the next which can act 
independently most of the time, but which is absorbed 
and loses its individuality when the next highest 
aspect choses. Thus, the lower aspect is never certain 
whether it is expressing just itself or is acting as an 
extension of a higher aspect.

It should be added that the scribe makes no claims 
or assertions concerning things said about him by the 
Seniors, and has no desire to be seen as any sort of 
teacher, leader, prophet or "great mage". He considers 
himself an explorer, and nothing more.


-- 5/7/86, Niles, Ohio.

Postscript added 9/10/92:

It seems appropriate to provide the readers with a 
minimum sketch of the symbolic basis of the narrative, 
so that they might have some clues to its occult 
interpretation.

The planetary symbolism of the Seniors themselves 
appears only on a very superficial level, and has 
little to do with the content of their story. The plot 
of the story follows the sequence of the zodiac signs 
in precessional order, starting with the sign of 
Pisces, showing the Earth and her Lunar twin as the two 
fishes. Further development follows through Aquarius 
and the other signs until it ends in Aries, with a 
minor epilogue not related to the signs. The portion 
concerning the Earth-Spirit and the portion concerning 
the character Set follow parallel but separate threads 
until they meet in the sign of Scorpio, from which 
point the story goes forward in a single plotline. All 
the plot elements relate in some way to the 
_astrological_ (as opposed to the Cabalistic) 
attributes of the signs.

The main characters represent the elements of the 
modified INRI or IRNI formula, presented in detail in 
the paper titled "Set / Horus" and several of my other 
papers. (The formula's appearance here is in fact the 
first clue I received as to the modified formula's 
existence.) Briefly, the Earth herself represents the 
first and last "I" of the formula, corresponding to the 
astrological signs Taurus and Aquarius respectively. 
This dual characterization shows her as both a 
celestial being in her own right (Aquarius = "The 
Star") and as the nurturing mother (Taurus, ruled by 
Venus and the Moon) within whose "womb" and at whose 
behest most of the action takes place.

The protagonist, Set, corresponds to the "N" of 
IRNI, and his described character relates closely to 
that sign, its traditional ruler Mars, and its exalted 
planet Uranus. The sign's modern ruler, Pluto, appears 
only as an undercurrent and in the Pisces phase of 
Set's plotline. Set's opposite number, Horus, 
represents the "R" of INRI, corresponding to Sol and 
its sign Leo. 




Aczinor, Senior of Jupiter in Earth

4/10/86

As the vision opened, I found myself in a place 
where blue sky came down to a yellow plain. There was a 
brilliance about everything, a cheery internal glow. I 
saw that the yellow plain had the texture of velvet or 
cotton candy.

Looking to the east, I saw a star coming up above 
the horizon. It had eight points around the 
circumference, another point aimed towards me and 
another pointed away from me.

To the south, I saw a lion seated on a cubical 
throne.

To the west, there was a watery area, in which a 
boat or barge was travelling. To the north there was an 
image of the planet Jupiter, rotating majestically in 
space.

I called again upon the Senior Aczinor, and he 
appeared wearing robes of blue with a dark purple 
shimmer in the folds. I did the LVX signs, to which he 
responded with the sign of Set, LVX, and the sign of 
the Enterer. I tested him with the pentagram of earth ( 
which had no effect) and with the hexagram of Jupiter, 
which caused his force to flow into me. He himself 
dissolved, passed through the hexagram, and 
reformulated himself on the near side of it.

From close up, I could see that his hair was 
white, and his skin was a violet so dark and rich as to 
be almost black. His eyes were a lighter shade of 
violet. He held up his right hand in the sign of 
blessing and asked me to return it. Another flow of 
force went between us, filling my own aura with a deep 
violet similar to his own color.

He said "Thank you, o mage of power. Now we can 
speak clearly to each other. I am Aczinor, 
representative of the father Jupiter in the system of 
the Earth Tablet. Though your invocations began with 
the King Iczhihal, yet I am the first to speak, being 
the initiator among the planetary powers of the Tablet. 
I the wisdom of the King, and of his father the Sun, 
and cause it to take form before the eyes of man. I am 
the first below the so-called abyss in the Tree of 
Life, and so I am the pattern of manifestation within 
the world. Thus my star shows ten points, and thus the 
lion, the king, is enthroned by my existence. I 
function as his seat of rulership, causing his power to 
be extended into matter. Thus the four-square throne  
is mine. The barge of the west shows my watery 
character, as the yellow plain and blue sky show my 
airy nature. The barge again is a foursquare 
construction, fitting the symbolism of my sephira, 
which is also considered watery in some ways. Thus also 
I float above the waters of creation in the earth's 
sphere, guiding those waters in their flowing downwards 
into matter.

"Since I am of the earth as well as of Jove, I am 
also related in some ways to his physical 
manifestation. The equivalent power in Jove's system 
rules those levels of his physical body in which life 
has appeared, taking its energy not from the Sun, but 
from the weaker but still great life of Jove himself.

"Now you have been asked to be shown the 
invocations of the planets in the enochian system. I 
can not do this myself, being but the most junior of 
his representatives within the levels of the system. 
But I can tell you how to go about preparing for these. 
As you have thought, it is best to do invocations of 
all the seniors within the tablets. But rather than 
holding to a single tablet, invoke all of the 
equivalent Seniors from each of the tablets at once. 
This will allow you to get a full view of the action of 
the planet with the sphere of Earth, who contains all 
of the tablets yet presented to man within herself. 

"From this, we will hope to instill enough of the 
force within you to make the presentation of the sphere 
clear and easy to perceive. Then you can go to your 
castle and locate the books with the invocations, and 
read them and transcribe them clearly." 

(3-hour interruption at this point.)

"To continue, since you have invoked me and I have 
come, we must use the force for some purpose. 
Therefore, let me begin a tale, as is my right as the 
initiator.  

"The planets of the system, with the exception of 
Luna, are all the bodies of lives of a scope so 
inclusive as to make the perceptions of men and angels 
nothing in comparison. All of them, even the least, 
operates at least at the level of Yesod in the Tree of 
which the manifest Tree of Life is Malkuth. Most of 
them operate in Netzach or Tiphereth of that larger 
Tree. 

"The one exception, Luna, is a dead world. Its 
action on man is purely a reflection of the Earth's own 
power, projected outward by the minds of men onto the 
nearest convenient target. Luna is the body of a being 
who is now no longer in incarnation, having completed 
his tasks at an earlier stage in our solar system. His 
twin, the Earth, remains in living incarnation, and her 
influence extends to control her brother's dead shell. 
The cycles of life within the earth that are tied to 
Luna reflect the rhythms of interaction between the 
Earth and her brother in long-ago days, before the 
appearance of life out of her seas. Their cyclic 
interaction produced a `standing wave', a continuing 
cycle of echos of the original interaction of the two.

"The Earth herself continues to reflect these 
cycles in the pulsations of her magnetic envelope. 
These aural-magnetic effects are the true cause of the 
lunar cycles in living things.

"I myself, angel and Senior though I be, am still 
within the range of these cycles, and I have less power 
sometimes and more at others as a result. You yourself 
are also subject to them, though since you wear a body 
of a male human, the effects are more of a 
psychological nature than they would be for those who 
wear female bodies. Nevertheless, the effects are there 
to be seen in all humans.

"I speak so long about Luna-Earth because I myself 
was the proximate cause of the brother's loss of 
connection with his body. Yea, even I, Aczinor, most 
junior of the Seniors of Jove, have had my influence in 
the dramas of the solar system. As you are now to have 
yours, o man who is a mage who is a god. Yours is the 
separation of the consciousness of the Earth from the 
deep levels in which she sleeps. Mine was similar for 
her brother in Luna. So you and I are brothers of the 
spirit, in the ways of our works, and I am pleased that 
you have come to me for aid in your quest.

"Now the brother's work was to express fully, with 
his sister, the effects of the so-called Third Ray of 
Active Intelligence within the system. Where she 
represents the lifting of the spirit out of matter by 
that force, he represented and embodied the movements 
of life into matter. For life must be present in matter 
before it can again be raised up.

"This one in Luna was of the younger of the 
stellar brethren, only a few cycles away from existence 
as a being of the type now embodied by human beings. 
This effort on Luna was to have been his first 
experience in incarnating as a full planetary being, 
free from the supervision of a mentor. (In the early 
stages of life in the higher realms, the man-gods 
perform their creations within the aura and under the 
guidance of a more advanced practitioner of the art.)

"Well did he do his work. Too well, in truth. For 
in concentrating himself to pass the spirit of life 
into matter he concentrated too well and part of his 
own spirit, though not his awareness of being nor his 
true self, but only that spirit which enlivens the 
ethers, became tied again into matter as it had been in 
the days before his rise to godhood. Worse, even when 
he realized what was going on and attempted to separate 
himself again, the flow of his energies into matter 
continued against his will.

"But we speak here of things far beyond this 
level, and words are not fully suited to the expression 
of these concepts. Perhaps a few images would make 
clear what we desire to express."

(I had had a strong feeling at this point that I 
was not really perceiving the presentation in its 
correct form. Aczinor's comment is the result of this 
feeling.)

He gestured with his left hand, and before us 
there appeared an image of the Earth-Luna system. But 
where in our own time Luna is dead, here he was 
surrounded by an aura of life, though the surface 
seemed as barren as it does now. The earth also shone 
with an aura of equal brilliance.

Now some of the life around the moon seemed to be 
sucked into it, leaving a hollowness, growing outward 
from its surface inside the aura. A shock went through 
the remaining aura and out into space. As it passed 
over the place where Aczinor and I stood in the 
heavens, I felt a tremendous sense of despair and 
failure, and a sort of panicky desire to repair the 
disaster before it was too late.

The despair, sorrow, and self-recrimination I 
sensed  was so overwhelming that I cried out, and had 
to leave the vision for a few minutes until it passed 
and I could again think sensibly. Worst was the sense 
of shame this being felt, as if in his failure he had 
also brought the works of the rest of the beings in the 
system to naught. It was as if this being in Luna had 
lost all sense of self-respect and self-confidence by 
his failure.

The pain he felt could be seen to radiate out into 
the system. It caused sympathetic responses in all the 
lives of the other planets, and so the whole system was 
threatened with disruption.

Now Sol turned his attention to the situation, 
seeking the cause of the disruption he had felt on the 
levels where he had his attention. Seeing the plight of 
Luna, he immediately overshadowed that entity, taking 
him over body and soul as he was able to do from his 
higher level. He caused a stasis in Luna so that the 
flow into matter was halted. The soul and awareness of 
Luna he lifted up, out of the trap, and wrapped in his 
own aura, comforting him and healing him.

Aczinor continued:

"With the immediate danger halted, there was time 
to look at the situation clearly and objectively. Sol 
and the planets attempted to comfort the lunar lord, 
but his shame was too great. He knew that by his 
failure he had ruined the whole beautiful plan by which 
Sol had intended to express love and life for this 
section of the galaxy. The far-reaching consequences of 
his failure overwhelmed him, and he begged to be 
allowed to resolve his error in some way, to expiate 
his shame with action.

"Since this disaster took place within the aura of 
Sol's work, it must therefore be remedied within the 
limits of his kingdom. He could not simply eject the 
ruined matter from the system, any more than a man can 
cure a cold by giving it to someone else. Nor could he 
allow this involutionary flow to remain free in the 
system, for then it would continue to increase, 
eventually ruining the plan which Sol's quick action 
had so far saved. There was much discussion among Sol 
and the senior planets of the system, and deep 
meditation by all, lasting many millennia, on how this 
problem could be solved. Many plans were proposed, but 
none of the senior planets felt confident enough of his 
solution to propose it as a definite course of action. 
So the discussion continued.

"Our earth, being among the junior planets of the 
system, having not yet reached Tiphereth of that larger 
Tree in which the gods live and act, was not a party to 
the discussions but was only an observer. But unlike 
the seniors she was on a level where she was intimately 
connected with the type of force her brother 
manifested. And her love for her twin motivated her in 
a way the senior planets could not be. She devised a 
plan, and when the senior planets did not arrive at a 
satisfactory solution, she proposed her plan to Sol.

"It is impossible to state now what Earth's path 
would have been had this disaster not taken place. The 
conditions under which it might have been understood by 
human beings have not existed for many tens of 
thousands of millennia. The minds of men, as they have 
evolved under her new plan, are too far from the type 
of consciousness needed for any meaningful expression 
to be possible.

"But it can be said that under that original plan 
there would never have been incarnate human beings on 
Earth. The furthest into matter they would have gone 
would have been Yesod, and for most of the life of the 
system they would have been in Tiphereth.

"In Earth's proposed plan, she would take the 
involutionary forces of her brother's sphere into 
herself and hold them there by deep concentration. She 
would, by her concentration, create a shell around 
herself which would keep the involutionary force out of 
the rest of the system. Thus the other planets could 
continue to develop their themes without interference.

"To eliminate the involutionary force from the 
system completely, she would set it against the 
evolutionary aspect of the Third Ray that she herself 
expressed. The incredible tension between the two would 
be used to produce an acceleration of evolution within 
her sphere. Where before evolution was a gentle 
process, with many thousands of millennia between 
substantial changes in form in a species, now evolution 
would be forced, with continual changes of both form 
and content of the living animal bodies. this forced 
evolution would produce bodies of a degree of 
refinement and integration that would never have been 
seen within the limits of Sol's original plan.

"Thus would she tie the involutionary and 
evolutionary tendencies together, halting the 
involution in Malkuth, keeping it from pulling the 
whole system back into the shell-worlds that preceded 
the full incarnation of the gods. And when the bodies 
were of a great enough degree of refinement, she would 
begin to eliminate the involutionary force all 
together. She would do this by forcing the human souls 
within her sphere to incarnate in matter.

"Unlike the matter itself, these souls, being 
already of a spiritual, evolutionary nature, would 
evolve much more rapidly. In matter, they would ache to 
return to the levels from which they first came, and 
their natural desire to return would eventually counter 
the involutionary tendency.

"Not only this, but the hammer-blows of experience 
the human souls would receive within the forge of 
incarnate existence would change them into something 
far greater than they ever could have been within the 
original scheme. For they would come out of that forge 
with a temper, a hardness, that could never be lost, 
making them as the gods of the system and of the stars, 
brothers to these within whose influence they had led 
their many lives, where otherwise they would have 
remained the pawns and tools of the gods throughout the 
life of this current universe. Thus many thousands of 
millions of new gods would eventually rise out of 
matter where otherwise there would have been none. All 
of them able to express within the universe both the 
formula of spirit, which is evolution, and the formula 
of matter, which is involution. They would be true 
microcosms, and after many more cycles of evolution on 
the god-levels, each of them would be individually 
capable of creating whole new universes for life to 
express itself in. Thus was `life more abundantly' once 
said to be the keynote of our planet.

"Even within this present universe will the 
effects of the Earth's proposal be felt. For these 
lives of men will spread out to the stars, when the 
gates are again open fully, and they will catalyze 
similar reactions in other spheres, where conscious 
life exists but develops at a slow pace. Thus will our 
galaxy and universe benefit from the crisis of Luna-
Earth, as consciousness independent of the gods rises 
up all over in response to the calls of the souls of 
men.

"But to return to our story, Sol heard the Earth's 
plan, and felt that it was the only possible one that 
had any hope of success. But he was certain there were 
aspects Earth had not considered, being beyond her 
current level of consciousness. And such a radical 
change of plan could not be put into effect on his own 
authority since its effects would spread so far beyond 
his own sphere of action. So he `passed the buck' as 
you would say, laying the decision in the hands of his 
own mentor, who incarnates in one of the stars of the 
Sirius group at this time.

"Now Sirius (as we shall call him, though that is 
not his true name) saw that the Earth's plan would 
work, but that there was a danger of her becoming so 
concentrated that she would not know when the disposal 
of the involutionary force was completed. Thus he 
declared that if the plan were to be implemented, there 
must at all times be within her sphere those who were 
capable of breaking out of it on their own, with no 
assistance, so that she might never suffer for lack of 
light should she have need of it. And also, these 
others must bind themselves to her, and constantly 
recapitulate the process of their evolution within her 
sphere, so that she might ever be reminded by her 
connection with them of the purpose for which she had 
hidden herself.

"The adepts of Active Intelligence, and of Love-
Wisdom, and of the lesser rays who were acting in her 
sphere and under her direction could none of them 
accomplish this task. For their natures lack the 
forcefulness needed for such a solitary breakout as 
Sirius demanded. Only the adepts of the First Ray, the 
Will aspect, could succeed at this task, and those few 
of this type who were already working within Sol's 
system were working at tasks that they did not dare 
abandon. For the First Ray is not natural to our system 
and only enough adepts to fill the critical needs were 
there.

"So the call went out for adepts of the First Ray 
willing to fulfill the task set by Sirius. And this is 
where you yourself come into the story, o scribe who is 
a god. To tell of your part we must tell more of your 
origin than we have as yet.

"Now, the progression of spiritual beings upwards 
through the planes in the course of evolution follows a 
regular cycle. That is, there are generations of such 
beings, and each generation must mature to a certain 
level as gods before they can perform the acts that 
cause the next generation to be born out of the union 
of spirit and matter.

"Thus there are large gaps between these 
generations. These gaps are not gaps in time, for time 
is meaningless on the levels of which we speak. Rather, 
there are gaps of relative accumulation of experience 
between the generations. This amounts to the same thing 
on your present level, but not on these higher levels. 
Normally there is a gap of one full Tree of Life's 
worth of experience between generations, although 
certain members of each generation will advance more 
quickly so that the gap becomes less as the progress 
continues. As one generation moves out of our manifest 
tree, another arises out of the union of spirit and 
matter to replace it. This occurs in cycles so vast 
from our current viewpoint as to be indenumerable in 
terms of years. Our Earth is now an exception to this 
because of her daring plan.

"You were born of one such generation and your 
progress followed that of your fellows up to the level 
of Tiphereth in that time and place's Tree. But at one 
point you had completed a cycle of existence within a 
planetary system, and as that system's lives withdrew 
from matter you went off into space with your fellows 
to find further opportunities for experience. 

"Now by what can only be called a fluke, a play of 
Murphy's law, the current that the souls ride between 
the stars separated you from your fellows, and pulled 
you into the center of a cataclysmic conflict between 
two stellar beings of a vastly higher level. Like a 
piece of flotsam on the waves, you became trapped in 
the circulating currents between these two. 

"The forces there were so vast and intense that at 
first it was all you could do to keep your being from 
vanishing, torn to pieces by the conflicting pulls. For 
a time not to be measured in years did you struggle to 
maintain your integrity against these near-overwhelming 
forces. That you were not made naught was more due to 
fortune than skill at first, for there were places in 
the currents between the two gods where you would have 
vanished like smoke on a breeze.

"But eventually you learned to draw on those 
currents of will themselves to maintain your being. 
While still trapped within the currents of the two 
gods' conflict, yet you could live and learn and grow. 
And so you did, drawing on the knowledge of those gods 
as you drew upon their power, ever increasing your own 
power and will, rising through the planes until finally 
your will was so strong that you could force yourself 
out of the bonds of the conflict.

"Out in the spaces between the stars again, you 
sought out your former companions who had not been 
caught in the trap. Finding them was a shock, for you 
had not realized how much you had changed in the course 
of your escape, having had no one to compare yourself 
to. Now you found that you had little in common with 
them. They were still singular beings, being all of the 
Third Ray essence, while you were now tripartite, 
having absorbed the forces of Love-wisdom and Will from 
your experience in hell.

"You could no longer communicate with them as 
equals. They could not understand you as you now were, 
and only your tales of shared experiences convinced 
them that you were their lost companion. You could 
still communicate with them within the limits of the 
third aspect, but even there your formulations were 
often so subtle as to escape their comprehension.

"There were beings around who could understand the 
other parts of your being to an extent. But these were 
devas and other angel-like beings, passive transmitters 
of higher forces rather than active users like 
yourself. So they also were of no use to you in the 
long run.

"The gods of that time and place were also 
uncertain of what you were. Like them, you encompassed 
the entire Tree of Manifestation in its three aspects. 
But you had fully fused the three aspects at a level of 
experience far below that at which they themselves had 
done, and none of them knew of precedents that would 
aid in deciding your case, determining where you could 
fit into the scheme of things.

"So, neither fish nor fowl, you wandered the 
universe, going wherever there was need of one or 
another combination of your three aspects. But never 
did you find a place where you fit fully, and could use 
all your skills at once. And always, always, there was 
that tremendous sense of loss at your separation from 
your original group, and an ache to fit in somewhere 
with companions of like powers and perceptions. Alone 
and apparently unique, you conceived of yourself as the 
`solitary one' or the `unique one'. Eventually you 
shortened this to simply `one', since one of anything 
is always unique and solitary. This you translated into 
Hebrew during your last completed cycle of incarnation 
on Earth, calling yourself `Achad', and expressing your 
full command of all the Tree in your two mottos, 
`O.I.V.V.I.O.' and `V.I.O.O.I.V.'.

"But I digress. You continued to wander, seeking 
work worth your skills, until the call went out seeking 
adepts of the Will aspect for the Earth's plan of 
salvage. You were far away in space and time, but a god 
who had known you in the old days and had felt the 
gods' equivalent of compassion for you and frustration 
at his inability to help you, remembered and 
recommended you to the god Sirius. Sirius saw that you 
were ideal for this work, for you had already 
demonstrated an ability to free yourself from traps of 
a far greater strength than the Earth's blockade would 
be, and you were already capable of acting almost on 
the levels of the gods themselves. Thus your presence 
would ensure that the shell could always be broken, no 
matter how bad the disaster.

"You had also demonstrated your ability to live 
isolated from the universe at large for long periods, 
during your captivity between the warring gods. Many of 
the adepts of Will who had already been considered had 
been passed over for this very reason. They could not 
function without external contacts.

"And again, being somewhat less than a full god, 
though fully expressing all aspects of the Tree, you 
were still capable of incarnating as a human being 
without too great a loss of your higher perceptions. 
Thus you seemed ideal for the position Sirius sought to 
fill. After consultation with Sol and Earth, you were 
called to Sirius to have the proposal laid before you.

"You agreed with Sirius' evaluation, and saw in 
the plan two possible benefits for yourself. First, the 
drop-forge environment Earth was to become was a 
reasonable substitute for the trap in which your own 
skills had been shaped and tempered. Thus you now had 
some hope that companions who would be your equals 
would come out of it. If not from among the human souls 
on Earth, then from among the adepts called for the 
task. And, failing that, the additional experience 
might be sufficient to raise you to full godhood by the 
end of the cycle of closure. I am happy to say that 
both of these goals have been accomplished, though few 
of your true companions are incarnate at this time.

"Thus you became the head of that group called, in 
Liber AL, the `Kings of Earth', but who prefer to be 
called Knights, for their task is one of aiding a good 
and righteous cause, and not one of rulership for its 
own sake. And the Knights of Will in the Earth were 
formed from among the adepts of will who volunteered 
and were qualified for the task.

"You ask why this was not said at the outset, in 
the visions of the Kerubic squares. The reason is that 
you would not have believed it. As it was, your 
resistance to what was shown about yourself was so 
great that everything had to be couched in symbols, and 
even those were slightly distorted. It could not have 
been otherwise, for Sirius' rule still holds among the 
Knights, and in each life in incarnation the Knight 
must recapitulate the whole of his evolution in the 
Earth. For such a recapitulation to succeed, it must be 
done blindly. And so you could not have known what was 
coming, and your initial resistance was reasonable and 
appropriate. With what we have given you since then, 
you are coming to accept the truth of what we say, and 
you will eventually merge your incarnate and excarnate 
aspects again.

"Nevertheless the Kerubic visions do contain many 
symbolic statements of what we have said here, 
particularly in the visions of the earthy lesser angle. 
That dark self who spoke in those visions, through 
whose eyes you seemed to see at times, is merely that 
part of yourself that has been excluded from 
consciousness during your recapitulation.

"We have been at this much of the day, and it is 
time to stop. Tomorrow we will finish with my part of 
the tale."

4/11/86

I tried to get contact using the usual 
invocations, but there seemed to be a great deal of 
interference. So I decided to delay the rest of 
Aczinor's tale for a day.

4/12/86

I did the invocations, and again found myself in 
the area of yellow land and blue sky that opened the 
previous vision of this Senior. I called upon Aczinor 
to appear, and he did so, looking essentially the same 
as in the previous vision. I did the sign of Set and 
the signs of LVX. He replied with the same signs, and 
added the sign of fire, which he held until I returned 
it.

I tested him with the pentagram of Earth and the 
hexagram of Jupiter, and neither had any effect on him. 
I asked why he had done the sign of fire, since we were 
in the Earth tablet at this time.

He replied, "We are not in the Earth, but above 
it, in the airs of the planets from which it was 
formed. But that is not the reason why I did the sign. 
It was done in salute to the master of the First Ray of 
Will who stands before me."

I decided this was an acceptable explanation, in 
view of the previous messages, and asked him to 
continue.

"When we left off, we were at the point of 
describing the initiation of the Earth's closure, under 
the auspices of Sirius, Sol, and the Knights of Will 
within her sphere. You were described as the chief of 
the Knights, and a little of your history was given. We 
started to supplement this with additional information 
the next day, but the currents were against us and we 
cut off communication until today.

"Before we continue, though, I wish to say a few 
more things in relation to what has come before.

"I said in the aborted session yesterday that the 
reason why your own path from Tiphereth to Binah was 
done alone, instead of with a group as is normally the 
case was due to your duties as the chief of the 
Knights. In your position, by declaration of Sirius, 
you are required to recapitulate the whole of your own 
history of initiation in each of your incarnations. 
Since the initiation must be done blindly, we could not 
earlier explain the reasons for your isolation, despite 
your frequent requests over the years that someone do 
so. I speak in this case for the other Knights, who 
have monitored and aided your progress through this 
current incarnation, while you did the difficult task 
of repeating the unrepeatable.

"We said before that it was only by a fluke that 
you became what you now are. If things had been 
otherwise, you would never have come to the position 
you now hold, nor would you have ever heard of it. You 
would still be down in the Tree with the rest of your 
original group of companions of the spirit. But because 
of your entrapment between the two conflicting gods, in 
that far-away place and time, you became more than a 
man, and somewhat less than a full god, long before 
your time would have come in the normal course of 
evolution. You are indeed, as you have so aptly 
described it, a queer fish. Before the closure of the 
Earth in long-ago times, there were none known who 
duplicated the qualities of your own being, 
intermediate between god and man, partaking of the 
nature of both in the fullest possible measure, fusing 
them into a third thing for which the universe at that 
time had no name. With the closure of the Earth, and 
the development of other adepts of the Will aspect 
under the forceful conditions of the Earth, you have 
come to have at least a few who are similar enough to 
yourself that you are able to communicate fully the 
quality of your being to them. But these are still not 
exactly like yourself, for the forge of Earth is not 
the forge of the stars in which you grew, and all of 
the adepts had companions of their own type with whom 
to develop. So your quality of uniqueness has not been 
completely lost to the world, and Achad is still the 
appropriate description of your being.

"The conditions under which you grew to power and 
mastery are unrepeatable, as we have said, being a 
fluke of cosmic nature that will not likely come again. 
So it is nearly impossible to produce in matter a 
complete recapitulation of your development. In some 
instances, mere symbolic substitutions had to be made 
for the true powers that affected you in the original 
course.

"To substitute for the two powers whose conflict 
gave your being the boost into mastery, you were in 
this life maneuvered into situations where you found 
yourself in the middle of arguments and conflicts in 
which you had no personal interest. But you presence 
acted to catalyze the manifestation of the full 
emotional force of the participants. These forces, 
being diverted from the direction in which they should 
have gone, towards the opposing party, were directed 
instead onto yourself. These forces were in some 
instances of such an intensity that they did almost 
kill you, as did the original forces. But these forces 
of the present day events would only have killed your 
body, where the true forces of the original conflict 
would have resulted in the true annihilation of your 
being.

"In the conflict between Paul Solomon and the 
other David , you were given the opportunity by one of 
them to chose between them, and when you refused to 
chose, preferring to maintain your independence, he 
tried to kill you by psychic means under the guise of 
helping you. This resulted in the rip in your aura that 
was not healed until your later contact with Nema. But 
at the time, this rip was a help, for it allowed the 
inner powers who supported Paul Solomon, on the other 
side of the conflict, to open you up to the spirit of 
the Earth at our request, so that you would have a true 
feeling for the goal of your work from the beginning. 
Also they did the service of prophesying the course of 
your work. And as you have found now, their prophesy 
was accurate to the last decimal place, so to speak. 
Like all good prophesies it was incomprehensible at the 
time but perfectly clear when the events it referred to 
occurred. Thus they referred among other things to `the 
One', Achad, who is yourself in your fullness, at a 
time when you had not even heard of Jones, let alone of 
Achad or his Tree.

"Now this compensation of the forces of evil 
thrown at you by David, with the forces of healing and 
light thrown at you by the supporters of Solomon, was 
the closest we could come in this incarnate world to 
the powers of the stars that caused you to be as you 
are, in the beginning of time. We continued to bring 
you into such situations, of a lesser degree of force 
but greater duration, for several years afterward. The 
circumstances that were engineered were designed to 
force you into the solitary path that you had to take 
and to keep you there until the path had been trod to 
its end. The pain and confusion and loss you felt by 
this isolation, and your consequent efforts to rid 
yourself of the inhibiting influence were fairly good 
analogies to the feelings and acts you did while caught 
between the two gods.

"The loss of your original companions from before 
your entrapment and your later finding of them and 
experiencing of their noncomprehension of yourself was 
duplicated in this life by the lack of comprehension 
the adepts showed for your work in its early stages, 
and in the rejection and insults of your skills that 
they showed. This was run concurrent with the other 
events that caused you to become isolated, so that the 
intensity of the isolation could be increase to the 
point needed for this life's work. So the periods of 
your isolation in the entrapment and your later 
isolation after your escape were run in parallel in 
this life, compacting the story's two similar parts 
into one for convenience.

"Thus your path in this life has been the closest 
possible duplication in incarnation of the original 
course of your initiation. Now that you have achieved 
the level of Binah, the rule of Sirius is somewhat 
mitigated. But still, your whole course has not been 
trodden, so the blindness must continue in part for a 
short while yet, until the powers of the planets chose 
to bring you back into their fold. The timing of this 
will not be under your control or the control of your 
fellow knights, but is a decision to be made by the 
gods themselves, in their own chosen time. But at the 
same time, it is vital that you have a reasonably clear 
view of what has come before, so we, Aczinor and the 
Knights, must resort to this more indirect method of 
revealing your past. The memories on which what we say 
is based are open to you, but the time to seek them 
must be kept in the future for a short while yet. In 
the course of your planetary explorations in the next 
few months, more will come to you in the form of direct 
memories, as you have already had direct memories of 
your lives as Dee, and as the priestess of Isis and 
Set, and as the priest-child of Set in that same temple 
in a later time, and of that other life in the middle 
ages in which you discovered the path to the stars in 
the powers of the menhirs, and in that life in the last 
century, immediately preceding your incarnation as 
Jones, in which you met David the Israelite in his 
incarnation among the Indians.

"The scope of your past is too great to be 
absorbed at once, and so these expedients must be used 
to accustom your brain to the ideas, opening the 
channel by which the true memories will come.

"Now I would like to continue with the story of 
the Earth's closing, but the next section is the 
responsibility of the goddess Lzinopo, who rules the 
lunar-earth currents within the Earth Tablet. She will 
be the one to describe the manner of the removal of the 
twin's ethers from Luna, and their incorporation into 
the body of the earth by yourself and the other 
Knights. She will also go into some other things 
related to your own course in that time and place, and 
how these affect your current work.

"To do this, invoke her at the time and place that 
you will, but soon, so that the currents you began with 
the invocation of Iczhihal will continue to flow 
without need for re-initiation."

I said that this was acceptable, and asked if 
there was anything else he wished to say at this time. 
He indicated not, but added that if I had any 
questions, he would surely answer.

I asked, as a matter of curiosity, if he could 
tell me the meaning of his name.

"My name, Aczinor, means `Wisdom flowing from the 
waters of Night'. Wisdom is of course the province of 
Jove among the planets, as truth is the province of 
Saturn. Night, in this case, is the Earth herself, who 
is the manifest representation of the powers of the 
True Mother, Nuit. It is from her womb that these 
waters of wisdom flow. Thus I embody the principles of 
wisdom in the element of Earth, as my opposite, Saturn, 
embodies factual truth."

I thanked Aczinor for his efforts on my behalf, 
and gave him license to depart.

Lzinopo, Senior of Luna-Earth in Earth.

4/13/86

I invoked the forces of the Senior Lzinopo of the 
Tablet of Earth. The Senior appeared as a woman, 
dressed in a long flowing gown of a dark blue or violet 
color. On her head she wore a crown like the waxing 
moon, with the limbs of the moon projecting out on 
either side of her head. She had a high rounded 
forehead, like Queen Elizabeth I, coupled with a square 
jaw. She stood turned about 30 degrees to her right. 
Her right hand was held forward, with the palm cupped 
upwards in a gesture of pouring. Her left arm was held 
at her side, with the hand facing to the rear, and it 
was bent at the wrist so that it was also cupped 
upwards.

From her right hand, I saw fall what appeared to 
be either grain or flakes of silver. These fell, but 
before they could hit the ground they were blown 
backwards between her legs, and appeared to flow 
upwards from there into her womb, which was concealed 
by her robes. Then, from the womb descended another 
stream, this time of golden flakes, which again were 
blown backwards before they could hit the ground. This 
second stream flowed up and landed in the palm of her 
left hand. A moon was embroidered on her left shoulder, 
and a sun was embroidered on the right shoulder.

I did the LVX signs, and the Sign of Set. The 
image of the Senior slowly rotated until she was facing 
me, still holding the position in which she first 
appeared. The front of her robe was cut deep, so that 
the tops of her teats could be seen. The edge of the 
cut was embroidered with a design of golden bees and 
butterflies. Her skin was white, but her feet, sticking 
out beneath the robe, were black.

I did the LVX signs and the sign of Set again, and 
she did not respond. The pentagram of Earth and the 
hexagram of Luna caused the background to become 
brighter, but had no effect on her. Testing with the 
letters made her grow larger, but still she did not 
move. Finally, I tried the signs of the rending and 
closing of the veil, at which she straightened up and 
replied with all the signs I had given, plus the sign 
of fire, which I returned.

She said, "I salute you, o mage who is the power 
of Will within the Earth, with the sign of your power 
among the elements. I am the goddess Lzinopo, who is a 
senior within the Tablet of Earth at the bidding of our 
goddess who resides in the planet Earth.

"Now, to answer your unspoken question, the reason 
I did not at first respond to your gestures and signs 
was so that you could get a full view of my magickal 
image. This will be important later, for reasons we 
will not now go into. I also did so to express that I 
not only symbolize the so-called Lunar current within 
the Earth, but am also of the nature of the Earth 
herself. The combination of the Lunar flexibility and 
changefulness with the power and stability of the Earth 
bring about that condition known as stillness and 
silence, which are the primary virtues of the elements 
of Earth. The gesture in which I stand is a traditional 
gesture of Isis and of Nepthys, the revealed and the 
hidden powers of the Earth. My countenance also reveals 
my combination, with the lunar forehead and the earthy 
jaw. So too with the combined forces of the Sun and 
Moon which are shown in the grains or flakes that fall 
from one hand into my womb, and out into the other 
hand. Meditate on this for a while, after we have 
finished here, and you will see some significant 
symbolism of the Earth in this.

"The bees and butterflies are also traditional 
symbols of the Moon and of the female sex, for obvious 
reasons.

"Now in order to continue with the tale of the 
Earth's closing, we must give you just a little more 
information about your own position in the matter, and 
the relations between you and certain other adepts who 
had been considered for the position which you now 
hold.

"In the time when the adepts of Will were being 
selected for their part in the task of the Earth, there 
were several adepts of Will already working in the 
solar system. These were not First Ray adepts, as you 
yourself are, but adepts of the first sub-ray of the 
Second Ray of Love-Wisdom, which is the common keynote 
of our system. Among these was one who working in Sol's 
sphere, doing the work of connecting the Earth with 
Sol's pattern.

"This one, who felt that he was best qualified by 
his previous experience in the system, and by his 
intimate connection with the Earth, wanted to be the 
leader of the group which was to handle and integrate 
the force of the dying brother into the aura of the 
Earth. Being of the Second Ray, he was comfortable in 
the system, and he felt that his ease of movement and 
ability to direct the forces made him the best 
qualified for this job. However, he was somewhat 
lacking in the ability to operate alone, having grown 
up spiritually in direct and full contact with many of 
the cosmic forces, and having attained his initiations 
through group work, as is normally the case. In the 
position you now hold, he would have required the force 
of all the other adepts of Will to crack through the 
shell of Earth at the time when the work was completed. 
He did not feel that this was a handicap, since once 
the closure occurred, none of the adepts could escape 
from the earth, and therefore would be available at the 
proper time.

"But an adept of the Will aspect of Love is a far 
different thing that the adept of the Love aspect of 
Will, such as yourself. The Second Ray adepts are 
proficient at gathering together and integrating 
energies, but are less able to deal with the release of 
those energies back into chaos, which is what this task 
requires at its end. It was felt by the gods involved 
that allowing him to be the chief of the Knights would 
leave open a possibility that the shell would not be 
cracked, if his identification with his being in the 
Earth became strong enough in the intervening thousands 
of millennia.

"What was needed was one who was not entirely 
comfortable in the system, being of another nature, so 
that even in the body the system would tend to reject 
him. This would ensure that the chief's identification 
with the manifest earth would never be strong enough to 
preclude his necessary rejection of it in the breaking 
of the shell.

"It was at this point that you were brought to Sol 
by Sirius, and examined for the position you hold. The 
candidates were gathered, and tested in their ways and 
abilities. Of all examined, only two had the minimum 
qualifications, you and that other we speak of.

"There was really no question in the minds of 
Sirius and Sol that you were the better qualified, so 
the examinations were more or less pro forma. But this 
other one did his best to convince them that he was 
better, and so they selected him as the alternate, in 
case some misfortune happened to prevent you from doing 
the work at the last moment.

"One can not really say that this being was 
jealous of you, for such is an emotion that only 
manifests in the lower bodies. But the adepts of Love-
Wisdom have one fault, which is that often, being 
identified with the essential force of our system, they 
believe that their perspective is greater than it is, 
that their own evaluation is the only evaluation 
possible. In their identification with the solar force, 
they take on something of the sense of inclusiveness 
that is his, but without also taking on the perspective 
needed to truly manifest that inclusiveness. This fault 
reflects, on a higher level, the egoism of the 
integrated personality in the worlds below Tiphereth. 
All of the rays have their faults, which are usually 
the same as their virtues, except exaggerated. The 
First Ray types like yourself have the fault of being 
over-persistent, of being too forceful in their 
presentation of their will for the matter on which they 
are working. Thus, left to themselves, they sometimes 
tend to produce degenerate versions of what they should 
have done. Such types are very dangerous within a 
system of the Second Ray type, and so they can only 
manifest here under the greatest of restrictions. In 
your present life, and in the case of your previous 
incarnation as Dee, these limits were applied by 
withholding from you the powers to match your will 
until you were sufficiently advanced to restrain 
yourself.

"So the chief and alternate were chosen, and the 
lesser adepts who would fill out the organization of 
the Knights of Will in the Earth were chosen, under the 
recommendation of Sol and Earth, each for his 
particular purpose in the scheme. When this was done, 
the preparations for the actual closure began.

"Now as was said by Aczinor, during all this time 
the moon was held in a psychic stasis in which no 
actions could occur. The spirit who inhabited the moon, 
being healed of his shame and his desire to rectify the 
situation on his own, was given over to certain gods in 
another system, to continue his training in the methods 
that would prevent him from being caught in a similar 
situation in the future. This separation of the spirit 
from the life of the ethers, the part of his being that 
had been trapped, was performed by Aczinor. Being the 
closest in nature to Luna's spirit among the Seniors of 
Jove, who is the manifestation of the synthetic aspect 
of Love-Wisdom, it was he who was called upon to draw 
away the living substance from the lunar body and to 
bring it here to Earth. Sol opened a gap in his stasis, 
away from the point where the Lunar Lord was connected 
to his body, and slowly he allowed the force of etheric 
life to flow to that opening. As it flowed, it was 
picked up by Aczinor and drawn across the short 
distance into the Earth's inner aura. When there was no 
life left in the lunar body, the connection between the 
Lunar Lord and that body shriveled and disappeared, 
since no more of his life could enter through Sol's 
continuing stasis. Thus he "died", in the sense that he 
could no longer be considered as having a connection 
with his body of manifestation.

"This all took place many millions of years ago, 
in the middle of the Cretaceous period of Earth's 
history. The absorption of the etheric substance of the 
dead brother into the body of the Earth caused an 
intensification of the Earth's magnetic field, and in 
the etheric equivalent of that field, her life-aura. 
And as a consequence, the amount of radiation coming 
into the Earth was substantially reduced. This purely 
physical effect was the first stage of the Earth's 
closure. Coupled with a reduction by Sol in the 
physical radiation output from his body, this caused a 
climatological change which eventually resulted in the 
extinction of the major animal forms then inhabiting 
the Earth. The was part of the Earth's plan, this 
change being the first of the methods by which the 
animal bodies would be put under stress to force their 
evolution.

"The Earth was not fully closed at this point, but 
the time of closure followed soon upon it. The adepts 
of will came to Earth, and the first of their tasks was 
to make use of the new force of the dead brother to 
complete that closure.

"Before this could be done, preparations had to be 
made. In order for the Earth to experience the work of 
the adepts in the manner decreed by Sirius, each adept 
had to be fused on one level with her energies, in a 
marriage of spirits. On a cosmic level, this fusion 
took place through a process analogous to the sexual 
process in humans, which leaves a permanent connection 
between the participants. In effect, and speaking very 
loosely, the Earth allowed herself to be raped by these 
adepts, allowed them to take into themselves the 
essence of her spiritual substance, and to place that 
substance completely under each adept's individual 
control. 

She became the whore of these man-gods, accepting 
all that they thrust into her, and giving all that they 
took from her, without expression of her own will, 
completely passively. To allow the adepts this freedom 
on her, she had to concentrate her consciousness to the 
point where her will was completely divorced from her 
bodies of manifestation. She concentrated her 
consciousness in her equivalent of the womb, her navel 
chakra, in the mode of receptiveness, and divorced her 
consciousness from the rest of her body. (Her life, of 
course, continued to regulate the actions of that body 
without her attention, in the same way that a human 
being does not have to consciously think about the 
processes of digestion or circulation of blood in order 
for those processes to function.)

"The adepts of Will, who at that time were all 
operating on the levels of the solar system, now had to 
create for themselves the various bodies of 
manifestation that would allow them to function in her 
sphere. These bodies, the so-called Atmic body of the 
hindus, and the body that is called the soul, they 
built directly out of the living substance of the 
Earth, forming it to their Will without regard for her 
awareness. In doing this, they created the prototypes, 
the models, on which the human bodies of this current 
day and those more developed bodies to come in the 
future would eventually be based. Their very presence 
in these levels, and their act of will in forcing the 
substance of the Earth into the desired forms, 
initiated the changes that would lead to incarnate 
humans seventy million years in the future.

"From that day forward the Earth progressed and 
developed only through her connection with the adepts, 
as they did their work within her. Gone was the 
possibility of her active development under her own 
will, until such time as the involutionary force of the 
dead brother's ethers was completely eradicated. She 
now progressed by reflection of the adepts as they 
recapitulated their own paths of initiation within her 
sphere. This has all been gone into in much more detail 
in the visions of the Kerubic squares, and we need not 
expand on it any more here.

"In the visions of the fiery lesser angle of the 
Earth Tablet, it was shown how a force of Will, 
represented by the element of fire, becomes 
encapsulated when it is forced into the Earth. This is 
an automatic effect, requiring no conscious effort on 
any being's part. In the instance we are examining now, 
the force of Will was the force of the Knights of Will 
in the Earth, as they took and manipulated her 
substance to their own ends. The force of Will 
presented by the adepts, particularly by yourself who 
was more than an adept though less than a god, caused 
such an encapsulation to take effect on a scale that 
caused the entire earth to be enclosed within the 
shell. Thus was the earth cut off from the heavens, and 
thus was her sleep within her own womb made complete. 
And thus has it continues to this present day, when the 
shell is about to be broken again.

"And thus also we complete our own presentation 
for the moment. More will be given if you return in the 
next few days and invoke the next of the Seniors in the 
series, Alhctga, Senior of Venus, who will show how the 
adepts made use of the forces of involution to force 
the development of bodies suitable to the task of 
destroying that very force. She will also go more into 
the developing conflict between yourself and your 
alternate, which is the basis for so much of the 
religious mythology of later ages. If you have any 
questions, ask them now, please."

I asked her to describe the nature and limits of 
this shell that was formed by the presence of the 
adepts. What could enter into it, and what could go.

"This shell is primarily on the levels of 
consciousness, those levels that begin with the ego in 
Netzach, and end with the individual pattern of destiny 
in Chesed. The lower levels, which are merely matter, 
with no inherent self-consciousness, are open to the 
outside. But the energies that can get in even on those 
levels are distorted by the aura of the earth in their 
passage, so that communication with the outside is 
problematical and subject to many errors. On these 
levels, the shell acts mainly to keep the involutionary 
force inside, rather than keeping the outside from 
coming in.

"On the egoic-solar levels, the shell is two-way. 
That is, it keeps all but a few beings of a certain 
type from coming into the earth, and also keeps any 
involutionary forces that have come that high from 
getting out. Again, some inward communication is 
possible, but it is often distorted. The main effect is 
to keep those souls who are on Earth now within her 
sphere of action. None who are here can really escape 
from the earth, although it is possible to send 
portions of the consciousness outwards, provided they 
are of a sufficiently pure character, and get back 
information from outside. But they can not leave the 
Earth completely, and can only incarnate within her 
sphere, until the shell is broken again. Similarly, 
souls of the human type who are outside the Earth's 
sphere of action can not come in and join the fun, but 
can sometimes send projections of themselves to see 
what is happening.

"On the levels above Chesed, the shell does not 
really exist, but the thought-forms created in the 
minds of men by the isolation of the lower levels 
generally insures that they do not think of the outside 
without some outside influence contacting them first. 
This is changing rapidly in this present day, though, 
as the consciousness of space produced by the space 
programs and the use of communication satellites sends 
men's minds outwards again. The American lunar 
landings, and the landings and fly-past missions to the 
other planets by our unmanned spacecraft are a sign 
that the shell around the earth is deteriorating and 
will soon fall.

"On a physical level, the shell extends somewhat 
beyond the orbit of the moon in the form of an almost-
spherical torus. That is, the shell is closer to the 
Earth at the poles than at the equator, and tends to 
hollow inwards right above the poles. The forces making 
up the shell rotate in both a spiral around the center 
of the earth, and in a spiral around the ring of the 
torus, much in the way that magnetic fields cause 
electrons to move."

As I did with Aczinor, I asked her to explain the 
meaning of her name.

She said, "My name, Lzinopo, means `first to come 
from the depths', or `first in the lower waters', 
depending on context. I am the flowing watery aspect of 
the Earth, its changeableness and its physical 
adaptability. I rule the production of new forms out of 
her substance, which is why I was chosen to give this 
part of the story which has to do with such creations. 
Also, being of the `lunar', receptive nature, I am also 
of her `mother' aspect. I represent the link between 
her and those greater waters which flow from the womb 
of Nuit, her correspondence on the cosmic levels. Thus 
I am first to come out of her waters into those larger 
waters, among the powers that serve her.

"Now, do you have any more questions? If not, I 
will take my leave. Do not forget to invoke next the 
powers of Alhctga, so that the story will continue in 
its proper order."

I told her I could not think of any other 
questions, and gave her license to depart.

(I note here that I had a great deal of difficulty 
keeping my mind passive enough to receive this 
communication clearly. It seemed that even the 
slightest evidence of will on my part tended to distort 
it a little, so that the grammar became stilted in 
places. I suspect that this is due to the reflective, 
lunar nature of the force of the Senior.)


Alhctga, Senior of Venus in Earth.

4/14/86

I invoked the Senior of Venus in the Tablet of 
Earth, named Alhctga. The currents of force felt 
strong, but did not show any tendency to produce an 
image.

After several invocations, the Senior appeared as 
a woman, dressed in a flowing green and amber robe (the 
cloth shimmered in these colors as she moved). Her hair 
was a honey-blonde color, worn loose to her shoulders. 
On her head was a circlet of copper, with a star of 
seven points mounted on the front, covering the ajna 
chakra. The skin of her face and hands was a 
mediterranean olive-tan color. She appeared to be 
pregnant, and held her left hand to her belly. Her 
right hand was held forward in the same gesture as was 
shown by Lzinopo in the previous visions, but nothing 
fell from her hand. Her face was middling-narrow with a 
fine bone structure. A small satisfied smile creased 
her face. The hem of her robe was embroidered with 
doves and serpents, and an occasional double-headed 
eagle.

I did the 5=6 signs, and the signs of Set and LVX. 
She responded in kind, and then held her hands out to 
her sides as if inviting me to come closer and embrace 
her. I tested her with the pentagram of Earth and the 
hexagram of Venus. Neither had any effect except to 
brighten the area a little. Testing with the letters 
also had no effect.

I invited her to speak, and she said, "Come closer 
and embrace me, o mage of Will, for I have the power of 
the Earth in her fullness within me, and you are the 
father. Therefore do I take a mother's right with her 
mate."

I willed myself forward and embraced her. Her eyes 
could be seen to be of a very deep green color, with 
streaks of olive and amber-brown. She leaned against me 
within the embrace for a moment, then stepped back.

She said, "My name, Alhctga, means `closest in 
spirit to the Mother'. I am the example of what the 
Earth's eventual force within the system will be after 
her rising. For the Earth is intended to express the 
force of Love-Wisdom within the system, in its 
reproductive aspect and its desire aspect, where the 
planet Venus expresses that force in its egoic aspect, 
and Jupiter expresses the synthetic aspect. Since you 
have caused her to awaken slightly, therefore is she 
aware again of the power of her mate, and has taken 
some of it into herself. As the force of the union 
increases, she passes it on to those of us who are her 
servants, so that we might prepare in our own way for 
the rising that is to come. You have not yet seen your 
mate in these visions, and will not until the day of 
the marriage, when you again rise into the stars and 
take her with you to meet the planetary lives of the 
system as a new, greater being than when she laid 
herself in her womb to sleep.

"Now being of the reproductive aspect of the 
Earth, and of her spiritual aspect as well, it is my 
task to explain the ways in which the Adepts of Will 
had their way on her, in the early and middle days of 
the hiding, before the appearance of human beings 
incarnate in the body. I will show you the ways in 
which the adepts used the involutionary forces of the 
dead brother of Luna to force the growth of more 
refined, tougher forms within her sphere. To begin 
with, we must again speak of the developing conflict 
between you and the one appointed as your alternate.

"In the early days of the Hiding, many thousand of 
millennia ago, there were no bodies on the Earth that 
could be used for the incarnation of intelligent, self-
aware beings. Since the appearance of such beings was 
vital to the eventual elimination of the involutionary 
force within a reasonable span of time, the first task 
of the Knights of Will within her was to initiate the 
processes that would eventually lead to the appearance 
of such suitable bodies. In terms of its effect on the 
goal, this was the least important of the periods of 
time, though it was the longest as it would be measured 
by incarnate intelligences. These later periods after 
the appearance in bodies of true human beings are much 
shorter. But the intensity of the effects working now 
are such that the difference between the earth before 
the Hiding and afterwards for many thousands of 
millennia is minuscule by comparison.

"But nevertheless, this creation of bodies had to 
precede the important part of the work, or that work 
could never be done. Effectively, the Knights of Will 
had to create a situation in which the evolution of the 
physical animal bodies would be accelerated several 
fold. To do this, they had to make use of the 
involutionary force of the dead brother.

"Now at this point there came a disagreement over 
methods, between you and your alternate. As usual, he 
was trying in some way to take away the leadership of 
the group from yourself, so that he could be the one 
who would be the initiator of the Earth's rising in 
this present day. Lzinopo has already gone over the 
ways in which the powers of the adepts of the Will sub-
ray of the Second Ray, and of the Love sub-ray of the 
First Ray, could degenerate or be exaggerated into 
faults. Both of you, you and your alternate, possess 
the faults to match your virtues, and always have done 
so. This was inevitable, since neither of you really 
had any competition on your own level to slap you down.

"But within the framework of the Earth, you, of 
the two of you, has tended to be more cautious and 
workmanlike in the manifestation of your force. You 
being alien to the system's essential keynote, the 
system tends to backfire on you more rapidly that on 
your alternate and thus you retain more caution in your 
actions. Your alternate on the other hand, being 
comfortable with and in the Second Ray, tends to jump 
ahead of himself, thinking he knows it all and can do 
whatever he wants without care of caution.

"Now at the point in manifest time of which we 
speak, the Knights were discussing the ways in which 
the involutionary force could be used to accelerate 
evolution. Being of the First Ray, and having 
experienced the effects of forceful invasion of your 
being in the time of your entrapment, you held that the 
organism itself must always be held inviolate. That is, 
that the involutionary force should never, ever, be 
merged into the actual physical bodies of the animals 
being evolved. Rather, it should be applied to the 
organism from the outside, in the form of rapid and 
unexpected environmental changes. This would allow the 
evolutionary aspect of the Third Ray within the animal 
bodies to operate freely in its adaptation to new 
conditions.

"Your alternate, being of the Second Ray, was 
inclined to merge the involutionary and evolutionary 
forces within the same body, and to try to harmonize 
them by balancing their conflict in the nervous systems 
of the animals themselves. He felt this would be more 
effective than your own method.

"As it has turned out now, your own method was the 
better of the two, and was the one that eventually was 
adopted for most of the surface of the planet. But at 
that time it was questionable whether one or the other 
was better, since it had not before been tried in the 
knowledge of any available source.

"Your alternate managed to convince a large 
minority of the Knights to support his own proposal. 
This group, while not large enough to over-rule your 
own decision on the matter, was strong enough to demand 
that their own ideas be given a fair test. Therefore 
two areas of the Earth's surface, each at that time 
reasonably isolated, were designated as test areas. The 
one given over to your own plans was the area now known 
as East Africa. The one given over to your alternate's 
plan was the area now known as Australia-New Zealand. 
These two land masses, having separated from each other 
only recently as geological times go, still had 
comparable groups of animals on them. But they were far 
enough separated that there would not be any cross-
fertilization between them.

"So the two of you and your adherent adepts went 
to work. Within the area of Africa you caused severe 
climatic and geological changes to take place, using 
the involutionary force to produce these changes as you 
needed them. The food shortages, and the increased 
dangers to survival, you believed would cause a rapid 
increase in adaptation among these creatures, making 
them more versatile and resilient, able to adapt that 
much more quickly to future changes. Eventually you 
hoped to create a creature that would be able to not 
only adapt itself to its environment but to cause 
modifications of that environment for its own use.

"Your alternate, on the island continent of 
Australia-New Zealand, did not indulge in such 
climatological modifications to any great extent. He 
considered them unimportant, and did not even attempt 
to control those natural changes that took place within 
his area of work except when they became too extreme to 
allow his subjects to live. In his area, he attempted 
to fuse the involutionary aspect of the Third Ray with 
the evolutionary, hoping and expecting that this would 
create internal stresses in the animals that would 
cause their bodies to adapt and become more refined. 
Eventually, he hoped, the forces in these bodies would 
cancel out completely. Since the amount of 
involutionary force within the Earth was much less than 
the amount of evolutionary force, his idea was that 
even after the involutionary force was entirely 
canceled (over a period of millions of years in 
billions of animal bodies) there would still be enough 
evolutionary force left so that the Earth could go back 
to her original plan of expression within the system. 
That this idea was in direct conflict with the intent 
of the Earth herself did not bother him, since there 
were none but yourself who could prevent him, and you, 
being the consummate individualist that you were, would 
not do so without at least a fair test. He figured that 
a fait accompli would put him on top again among the 
adepts of the system, and even Sol would not be able to 
say him nay.

"But alas for this plan, his system did not work 
well enough to be continued. After several million 
years, a sudden change in climate caused all the animal 
life over the largest portion of his work area to be 
killed off, and the coming of a desert condition that 
appeared to be permanent prevented the remaining animal 
lives from ever gaining the needed strength and numbers 
again. Thus, even his own adherents decided that his 
plan would not work and it was decided to abandon it in 
favor of your own plan, which seemed to be working 
well.

"(I should point out here that your own 
manipulations of the African climate led to the changes 
in his work area. He could have prevented them if he 
had paid more attention to the climatological effects, 
but he had not done so. You had warned him several 
times that he should do so, and predicted the result 
that came. But he had rejected it as gratuitous carping 
on your part. Since you were all now working on a lower 
level than before, such emotional reactions were now 
possible, and he expressed them in this instance. He 
blamed you directly for the failure of his plan, and 
vowed privately to perform an act of revenge at a later 
point in your own work. But he missed his chance the 
first time, and after that you were warned and 
manipulated his anger to your own ends.)

"Meanwhile, the animals of your own area of work 
had been adapting constantly and continuously to the 
changes you had forced upon them. Many of them 
developed sufficiently to be able to survive over 
ranges of climate that would have killed any of their 
predecessors in less than a day. And not only to 
survive, but to flourish. The population had not only 
increased despite the changes, but had increased in 
variety far beyond what you yourself had expected. 
Large numbers had even escaped the work area and fled 
to other lands, spreading the adaptations far and wide.

"Now in view of their relative success there was 
no question in the minds of the adepts that the 
external-threat system of forced evolution was superior 
to the internal-conflict model. So even your alternate 
abandoned his project, and went to work to spread the 
new animal lives about the globe and to force even more 
adaptations within their being. Thus, the modern 
mammals and birds became the ruling classes of the 
animals upon the Earth, and the marsupial descendants 
of the alternate's experiment were left to develop as 
they could in the new conditions. Some of them did 
evolve significantly once the internal pressure of the 
involutionary force was removed, but none ever came 
fully up to the standards of the mammals.

"All of these events took place during what man 
now calls the Tertiary period of evolution on Earth. 
Within that period, the time of experiment ended about 
twenty-five thousands of millennia ago. By the 
beginning of what is now called the Miocene epoch, the 
adapted animal forms had been spread all about the 
Earth, and had taken root and begun to adapt even more 
on their own, filling every available niche in the 
ecological pattern.

"This time-scale seems vast from the standpoint of 
an incarnate intelligence, I know. But from the point 
of view of the Adepts of Will, it was more brief than 
the later period in which human-like beings had 
appeared. On the levels on which they were working, 
time as man now knows it did not exist, and duration, 
the rate at which events are experienced, could be 
varied widely by the will. So it did not seem all that 
long from their viewpoint.

"It was only after the appearance of man-like or 
ape-like beings that the work again began in earnest. 
These being represented the ultimate in adaptability 
and nervous-system development of all those animals 
that had been forced to evolve. And they had already 
begun to use tools on their own, to change their 
environment, when it was discovered that their nervous 
systems had developed enough to incarnate a human-type 
soul.

"There were several species that showed potential 
for full awareness and intelligence, and it was decided 
that all of them would be tested and set against each 
other to see which would come out best. This testing 
began about seven million or eight million years ago, 
with the appearance of the first true hominid species, 
which were small ape-like beings. It continued in 
irregular spurts up to the present time, as one species 
after another showed itself to be of less than human 
potential and was dropped from the schedule. Usually 
these beings were rapidly killed off by the competing 
species who were still within the testing cycle.

"About a million, a thousand thousand years ago, 
the last three of these species had been selected and 
set against each other in competition for living space 
and food. Eventually one of them won out, and became 
the only truly human species of Earth. But this species 
again fragmented as small populations became isolated 
from the main group and began to evolve even more on 
their own in the less fruitful areas of the world that 
circumstances forced them to. With the increased 
adaptations that their extreme living conditions gave 
them, they eventually migrated into the areas 
controlled by the main group, and either supplanted 
that group or mixed with it, either way leaving their 
own genes in charge and causing the weaker genes of the 
losers to disappear from the race. This occurred 
several times more during the intervening millennia, 
and each time the replacing race was stronger and more 
adaptable that its predecessor. Eventually we came to a 
point where all of the animal-humans were fully capable 
of holding all of a human soul. Though at that point 
the consciousness aspect of the humans could still not 
be fully expressed. The lives of men, the connection 
between the heart center of the body and the life 
aspect of the soul that enlivens the body, had been in 
place since the first appearance of the hominids. Now 
the consciousness aspect, which was present but 
rudimentary in the races, had to become fully 
developed.

"Now at this time on earth, the human souls who 
lived within her sphere were gathered into a community 
on the astral plane. There was a civilization there 
that compared favorably with most of the present-day 
human societies in manifestation, as far as human 
thought and behavior went. Since, on the astral, there 
was no inherent need for competition, this society was 
relatively peaceful and given to simple human artistic 
pursuits, along with the normal interactions between 
souls that make up the substance of most lives. There 
was no pain that was not self-created, and no horrors 
of any sort. This would not have been the case if the 
earth had been open to the stars in that time. If that 
had been the situation, then conflict would have been 
more prevalent, as one or another group sensed the 
force of one or another cosmic being and attempted to 
put its energy into practice in their lives. But the 
isolation of the Earth made for relative stability and 
coherence in the group of human souls. This was the 
civilization that is remembered today in the legends of 
Atlantis, and Mu, and of other "lost" civilizations.

"The manner in which the consciousness of human 
souls was forced to come down into the bodies 
completely has been covered in the visions of the Airy 
Lesser Angle of the Earth Tablet, and we need not go 
into it again here. But we should remind you for 
purposes of reference that it was you yourself who was 
the cause of the fall into matter, and thus it is you 
who was the proximate cause of the legends of Lucifer, 
the angel who fell and carried the legions of angels 
with him. This same event was the cause of the legend 
of the snake in the garden of Eden, who tempted the 
more receptive (and therefore more "female") human 
souls to become attracted to matter, and to leave the 
light of the sun for the darkness of Earth.

"Now in the foregoing years, before the fall, you 
had spent several different "incarnations" on the 
astral plane, trying to convince the souls there to go 
into matter willingly. But most would not hear you, and 
so you devised a plan, with the other adepts of the 
Will, to cause the fall to take place involuntarily. 
This was the event that was described as the act of the 
child who studied crystals, in the account of your past 
lives in the Kerubic visions.

"I said that I would not say much on this, so I 
had better stop now. But there is more to be seen in 
this area before you go on to the next senior, Liiansa, 
so you should again invoke me before that time. I will 
come to your call, and we will see what remains to be 
seen."

4/15/86

I called upon Alhctga again, and she appeared. 
This time she was not pregnant, but all other aspects 
of her appearance were the same. I did the 5=6 signs, 
and the signs of LVX and of Set. She responded with the 
sign of Set, and then transformed her body into the 
various crosses and symbols of LVX. Then she reformed 
as a woman and saluted me with the fire sign.

"Hail, o mage of Will, hail to you, and homage to 
you! For in the dark of night you have brought the 
light again to the Earth, and the Earth rises up in 
response.

"Now during the previous day, we had difficulty 
speaking together, and there seemed to be some 
inhibition working to make the communication weak. This 
is in part due to the fact that you are operating under 
a transit of Saturn, but more to the fact that we are 
here dealing with energies far beyond what might 
normally be encountered in an invocation of these 
squares of the Tablet.

"To continue with our story of yesterday, we were 
about to tell of the way in which you caused the souls 
of men to become incarnate consciously in bodies for 
the first time.

"In that time of which we speak, man was living in 
consciousness primarily on the astral levels. Those few 
parts of his consciousness that had been fused with the 
physical body were concerned with the operation and 
functioning of that body in the world, its maintenance 
and basic survival, and so seemed dark to the larger 
part of awareness that remained upon the astral levels.

"It has long been known that the lower levels of 
the astral reflect the heaviness and inertia of the 
lower earth, and the darkness and seeming evil there 
acts as a barrier between the incarnate existence and 
the astral. This barrier today acts mainly to keep men 
from becoming fully aware of their astral life, which 
they continue in their dreams but which they do not 
remember in the waking incarnate state.

"In those earlier times, the barrier's effect was 
mainly in the opposite direction, keeping the astral 
self from remembering those parts of its being that 
existed upon the manifest plane of Malkuth. This 
barrier was the main difficulty to be overcome in 
forcing the fall of man into matter.

"You will recall from the visions of the fiery 
lesser angle of the Earth Tablet that the energies of 
matter have a mode of rotation opposite to that natural 
to the higher planes. The friction between these 
counter-rotating planes was what created the darkness 
on the lower astral, and the barrier between them.

"The entire purpose of the work of the Earth, her 
plan for the removal of the involutionary force from 
the solar system, took on a rapid increase in activity 
at this point. Where the previous thousands of 
millennia had been given over to the refinement of 
bodies through the external-threat model of evolution, 
now the main rite of the work must come into being. The 
involutionary force had to be placed into the 
consciousness of man, so that by his will and his 
awareness, and his striving to return to the spirit, it 
might be overcome and eliminated while at the same time 
giving a tremendous boost to the development of 
consciousness in the cosmos. Where before the force 
only acted upon the bodies from the outside, now it 
must be incorporated into the feelings and minds of 
men, so that the conflict might be resolved forever.

"To do this, and also to get the greater part of 
the awareness of each soul down to the level of 
Malkuth, you took the involutionary energies and formed 
them into a vortex, a whirlpool, on the higher levels 
of the material plane. Since the involutionary force 
also has a rotation opposite to that of the 
evolutionary aspect in matter, its rotation was 
identical with that of the astral levels. The only 
thing separating it from the astral before this time 
was the intervening evolutionary aspect, and the effect 
of Saturn upon this low plane by reflection from his 
normal place beyond the Tree of Life.

"So you gathered this whirlpool around yourself on 
the physical plane (the etheric levels of that plane). 
Then by your concentration upon the relation between 
the astral and the physical, from a viewpoint on the 
lower astral, you caused the effect of that vortex to 
be drawn upwards through the barrier that separates the 
astral from the physical. You opened the gate into hell 
for the innocent lives of the early men. That this was 
done at the bidding of the planet herself was not known 
to them, and so they perceived your action as evil 
after the desired effect had been fully achieved.

"Having opened the gate, you yourself were the 
first to pass through it, leaving behind the astral to 
explore the physical through the senses of the body. 
Having done so, you returned with reports of what was 
in that place, seeking to inspire curiosity and a will 
to see among the humans. Some of these responded, and 
not all by any means were your fellow adepts of the 
Will aspect. For even in that time, when humans were 
merely a form of angel or deva, passive to the action 
of higher forces, some of them by flukes of nature were 
prepared for this work and became attracted.

"Each one who passed through the gate and returned 
to the astral culture brought with him a bit of the 
involutionary force. By contact with the others on that 
plane, the force was slowly spread throughout the 
astral assembly of men. They became infected with the 
force unawares, and its effect on them, the changes it 
made in their perceptions, were not immediately grasped 
by them.

"But eventually it became clear to even the most 
innocent that something unprecedented was happening. 
Where before the astral community had been relatively 
stable and unified, now there was growing dissent. 
Conflicts arose as the perceptions of men were changed 
by the experience of the involutionary Third Ray force. 
What had once been whole now became divided. Groups of 
men on the astral came into conflict, and the way in 
which the society was to be governed became a matter of 
debate instead of natural activity. Some held for 
attempting to retain the old state. Some held for going 
immediately into matter. Others developed opinions that 
were at odds with any type of perception known to man 
up to then.

"This growing development of conflict is 
remembered to this day in the stories of the fall of 
Atlantis, how the priests of the different gods fought, 
and in their fighting caused Atlantis to sink beneath 
the waves. This sinking was not the sinking of a land 
mass into a physical ocean, as it is usually 
interpreted, but instead is the sinking of man down 
through the astral waters to the material world.

"Having tied nearly all the souls of men in 
existence into that vortex through their infection by 
the ones who had passed through it, you now did the act 
which caused men to fall into matter no matter what 
their will. Focusing yourself on the highest levels of 
the material world, you caused these souls to be drawn 
to you through the gate by their connection with its 
energy. You caused the vortex to descend from the 
astral and this caused a corresponding descent of man.

"Having brought men into matter, on the side of 
consciousness, you now closed the door to the astral 
fully, locking them in until by the force of will they 
would eventually break out again. With the door closed 
the vortex was no longer needed, and you caused its 
energies to be dispersed among the population, each one 
absorbing his share of the involutionary force to the 
extent he was able despite his desires in the matter. 
The rest of the force, that could not immediately be 
held, was dispersed back into the environment.

"While this event seemed to occur rapidly from a 
viewpoint on the astral plane, in the realms where time 
governs it was spread over many years, as the souls had 
chances to incarnate in the limited number of bodies 
available. In manifest time, the event began at the end 
of the tertiary period, and continued on well into the 
quaternary, or most recent, epoch.

"At the same time, the concentrated involutionary 
force that was released back into the environment 
caused a degradation of the living conditions on earth, 
through a reduction in the amount of heat escaping from 
the Earth's core. This caused the climate to vary 
widely, rapidly swinging from hot to glaciated and back 
again, putting extreme stress for survival onto the now 
incarnate humans. The needs for survival forced the 
human souls to make use of that faculty of their being 
now known among men as the concrete mind, forced them 
to make use of their higher faculties within the limits 
of incarnate existence.

"The involutionary force in men's minds caused 
them to perceive each other as enemies, if they were 
not already familiar with each other. This time was one 
of great killing of man by man, and of tribe by tribe. 
The many skulls from this period found by archaeologist 
that had damaged skulls are evidence of the severity of 
the problem. At the same time, man perceived the 
involutionary force in his environment, in the form of 
the dangers to himself, and the concrete mind had to be 
used to devise ways of countering the danger from both 
man and world. Thus was born the beginnings of 
civilization, in the gathering of men for the 
protection of each other against other men and the 
environment. 

"In many ways, the conflicts between men within 
each group were more intense than the conflicts with 
external dangers. For the need for survival caused them 
to refrain from killing each other as easily as they 
killed strangers, and this restraint let the force 
build up. It was the effort to devise ways to live with 
each other despite the tendencies of the involutionary 
force, as much as it was the effort to devise 
protection against the outside, that caused the 
concrete mind to be developed.

"The effort to survive caused thought-forms to 
appear on the astral and mental levels, which 
incorporated a will to counter the effects of the 
involutionary force. These thought forms, slowly built 
up by the minds of men, acted directly as a balance to 
the involutionary force, weakening it and destroying it 
a bit at a time. The will-to-survive proved to be 
greater than the will-to-death, and slowly man 
conquered the involutionary force for his mother the 
Earth.

"By the end of the last great period of 
glaciation, about ten thousand years ago, the battle 
had been effectively won. Man had learned to survive in 
the worst conditions that nature could throw at him, 
and flourished in all the environments that could be 
experienced on earth. Now the concrete mind, freed 
somewhat from the essentials of the battle, began to 
create new ways of living, different from those of the 
animals from which he evolved, which so greatly 
increased his ability to survive that he became in 
truth the lord of the world that he is today. Truly is 
man Adonai, the Sun in the Earth, the light of the 
spirit within matter, as the Earth had intended him to 
be in that long-ago day when the plan of salvation was 
devised.

"I might mention in passing that the conflicts 
between men in this day, between nations and 
individuals, are merely the hangovers from this period. 
The involutionary force is gone, save for those rare 
cases when man invokes it deliberately. The evils that 
men do are the result of his racial memories of that 
time, brought forward into this new age. 

"It might seem as if man is more violent than ever 
in this day, but this is not the case. The per capita 
number of deaths by homicide in this day is much less 
than even a thousand years ago. And when it is compared 
with those early days, there is no comparison at all. 
The existence of such great weapons as man can now 
bring against man is causing him to become consciously 
aware, as a race, that what aided him in his early 
survival has now passed its day, and must consciously 
be removed from his behavior. The men of those early 
days, had they had atomic weapons, would not have 
hesitated to use them at the first offense. Man in this 
day shows his superior state by the fact that, once he 
realized the terror he produced, he restrained himself 
from its actual use. I have confidence, as do my fellow 
Seniors, that man will be able to survive the existence 
of his own tools, and will remove them from the world 
in short order, as circumstances change and they become 
unneeded even as deterrents. 

"Truly do I speak, and all men should listen to 
these words: Nowhere, nowhere in the cosmos (save in 
your own case, o unique one who writes this) has 
consciousness come through such tribulations as man on 
Earth has suffered. And nowhere has the conquest of 
mind been as great as it has here. Truly has man shown 
himself to be the child of the gods, the conquering 
child who sweeps all before him. All, even the least of 
men, have already passed onto the road of the Gods, and 
all, even the least, shall tread its path in the 
endless going into wonder. Those who say differently, 
that man must subordinate himself to the will of the 
gods, and become as the beasts of the field in his 
submission, speak from ignorance, and the blindness 
that the closure of the Earth has kept upon him. 

"Open your eyes, O Men! Open them, and see that 
even now, upon the Earth and in the body, you are gods. 
Nothing now determines your path but your own desires 
and will. Nothing now stops you in your going save only 
that resistance of matter that all the gods must fight 
against. Fight ye with a good will, and conquer! Let 
the light come into the Earth again through your minds, 
and ye shall bring that light to the universe at large, 
and the beings who inhabit that universe shall wonder 
at you, and be abased as you continue to do what they 
can not, and bring down the light beyond the Tree into 
matter.

"Other places are there in this universe, very 
many, where consciousness does exist in the body, and 
mind act upon matter. But in those places, the course 
of evolution was of a gentler nature than here, and the 
minds of the souls that were like men before the fall 
were placed into their bodies directly, by the gentle 
hand of their gods. None of them, none, have the 
strength of being that the least of men shows. None of 
them, none, will survive the withdrawal of their 
enlivening god from matter, save those on whom man acts 
in the future years beyond the opening of the gates to 
the stars. Those on whom man acts will partake of his 
nature, and thus will his strength infect mind in the 
cosmos, as the involutionary force infected him in that 
long-ago fall into matter. Thus will light spread ever 
more abundantly through the cosmos, and the gods shall 
rise up out of matter to create endless new universes 
for the play of evolution and wonder.

"Now, o scribe who is a mage who is a god, we have 
done with the presentation of Alhctga, who is myself. 
We have taken man from his fall to his rising, and now 
the course of evolution is inevitably upwards to the 
stars. With man's final conquest of nature, a new phase 
opens in his history, which is the phase of the 
evolution of the mind through the conflict of the gods 
who are men. The new phase shall be described in part 
by the next of the Seniors in order, Liiansa, whom you 
should next invoke. I am proud to have been the 
instrument of the revealing of the knowledge before 
men, and I salute you, the first of the adepts of Will 
within the Earth, and I salute all those who have risen 
by your acts, the races of man. Let it ever be thus, 
that man strives for the light, and leaves behind the 
darkness, destroying it by his will.

"I have done."



Liiansa, Senior of Saturn in Earth

4/18/86

I recited the calls and invoked the powers of the 
tablet of Earth, ending with the Senior Liiansa.

Liiansa appeared before me in vision in the form 
of a man, rather old with graying black hair. He wore a 
black and red robe, with a lining of dark violet. His 
feet were shod in what appeared to be sandals made of 
some dark, heavy metal. In his left hand, he held a 
book, open to a page showing a black tower with a 
guardian before its gate. As I watched, he turned the 
page, and showed another picture, of the planet Saturn, 
with the enochian letter equivalent to "A" under it.  

I did the 5=6 signs, and the sign of Set. Liiansa 
answered with the LVX signs, and also the sign of Set, 
followed by the sign of fire, which he indicated was a 
salute to myself. I returned the sign.

I asked him to speak, but he did not. Instead he 
turned to his left, and pointed with his left hand to a 
point to my right. I turned, and there I again saw the 
image of the planet Saturn. But here it seemed in some 
way emphasized that the rings of Saturn actually 
represented a hole between levels of existence, and the 
body of the planet sat in the hole and guarded it. On 
closer examination, I saw that there were forces of 
some sort coming down from above, and passing between 
the ring and the body of the planet. Below the planet, 
these forces came out again, but in a different form. I 
could see that they now had an ordering to them of a 
different type than when they entered. It was as if an 
inchoate mass of particles had been bound together into 
a sort of crystalline web, which the planet spun out 
behind it as it moved. 

I turned back to Liiansa, and he said: "Welcome 
again, o mage of will. Now that we have covered the 
nature of my being by these symbols I have shown, let 
us continue with the story that we have been telling, 
of the past of the earth and mankind.

"When you last left off, we were at the point 
where the involutionary force had been completely 
conquered by the desire of men, acting in the body and 
upon the earth. The time is just after the last of the 
great ages of ice, about ten to twelve thousand years 
ago, depending on the part of the world we are 
considering.

"This is the time which is felt, in the backs of 
the minds of men of the present day, to have been the 
"Golden Age" of man, that wonderful past that everyone 
thinks of but no one can identify. The "good old days", 
as it were. 

"Indeed, in many ways it was a golden age, though 
from the standpoint of our modern environment it was a 
rather harsh time physically. The reason that it was 
golden, from man's point of view, is that in that time, 
the true opponent of man, the involutionary force, no 
longer had a great effect on him, and at the same time, 
population was so low, and so spread out over the 
surface of the earth, that competition between man and 
man over resources had not yet begun. Man took what he 
willed from the earth, without opposition.

"Now in that time, the culture was much more of a 
cooperative than a competitive venture. Man did not 
have to compete with man, but he could gain great 
advantage in life by combining his individual skills 
with those of other men, to make life a little easier 
for all. Thus the groups of men were cohesive and 
cooperative, rather than competitive.  

"Since the pressure of forced evolution was no 
longer on man, and his mind was at that time not 
distorted by the teachings and acts of later days, the 
signs of the spirit were given openly to man, without 
concealment or distortion. For the first time on earth, 
and for the last time for a very long time, knowledge 
of the relationship between yourself, acting as Set, 
and the Earth was fully known. The religious symbolism 
of the day emphasized this union of yourself and the 
earth and expressed it in the ways most relevant to man 
of that time.

"The basis for their "religion" was the light in 
the earth. Man was that light, and you as the Son of 
the Stars were the symbol of that light in the minds of 
the seers. The earth itself was symbolized by the cave, 
the womb in the ground, within which man sheltered, and 
had his civilization. The earth's womb, as the caves 
were considered, was always of the same temperature, no 
matter the forces outside, and so it was the best of 
places to live. The earth gave these places without 
demanding anything in return, and so man saw her as the 
great provider, out of whom came all good things. Not 
only their shelter, but their tools of stone and their 
nourishment came from her, and so she was worshiped as 
the all-mother.

"The religions of that time were truly magickal in 
character, and were concerned more with getting things 
from the earth to make life easier than they were with 
the worship of some god or another. Man felt that the 
world would give him anything, if he planted the seed 
of his need deep within her womb. 

"So the priest-leaders of that time, who were 
magickians and also were hunters and leaders in the 
mundane sense, would travel as far into the earth as 
they could, deep into the lowest passages of her caves, 
and there they would plant the seed of the need, in the 
form of pictures painted on the walls of her womb, and 
energized by the desire of the heart. By doing so, they 
believed that they could cause the earth to produce 
exactly those things they desired. And so it often was, 
for confidence in action is the key to magick, and 
their belief in the efficacy of their actions was 
absolute.

"The artistry of these paintings is not much 
appreciated in these later days, for man now sees these 
pictures in the light of his bright lamps, and not as 
they were intended to be seen. In the light of the dim 
torches by which they were created, these pictures 
seemed to move, to take on the life of the thing they 
represented, so that in the eyes of the magician-
priests, they were identical to their physical 
counterpart.

"In the more southerly climes, where the caves 
were not so common, there developed a similar worship, 
but using the symbolism of the seed in the ground, 
which sprang to life to provide man with food. Thus 
were the beginnings of agriculture brought into the 
world, as an adjunct to the worship of the goddess, and 
of her son.

"Now the name Set is not the name by which you 
were known to these men and women, but the symbolism 
they used is substantially the same, within its limits, 
as the symbolism we are trying to re-introduce to the 
world today in an effective form. The symbolism of the 
mother and the son was nearly universal in that time, 
and appeared in cultures that had never met each other 
directly. All of the symbolism came directly from the 
sensing of the mages of the story which we tell now, to 
the extent that it had been accomplished in that day.

"So this was the golden age, when man was at peace 
with himself, and with the earth. It was a period of 
necessary rest for the souls of men, after the terrible 
trials of the previous thousands of millennia. Conflict 
existed primarily on a personal level, and not at all 
on the social level. That is, group did not normally 
fight against group, but cooperated in the tasks of 
living.

"But this situation was not to last, as we all 
know all too well today. And, as in the previous phase 
of the cycle, you and the Knights of Earth were 
primarily responsible for its ending, and the 
initiation of the next phase of the Earth's plan for 
man.

"The golden age was intended also as a sign for 
the future, so that men might have in their astral 
memories the sense that there was a time at which men 
did not fight men. In the earlier phase of the work, 
the natural desire of the souls of men to return to the 
spirit from whence they came acted as the impetus for 
the work of eliminating the involutionary force. Now, 
in the present day, a new goal had to be created. For 
now the Knights were to plunge man into the state of 
conflict with man that has continued to this current 
day, and is still in process of overcoming. 

"The reason for this conflict was not to destroy 
man, or to cause suffering for its own sake, but to 
force man to come to terms with man, to understand 
himself and others through the ability to sympathize 
and feel another's pain. Man at that time, while in 
tune with nature, was still not completely master of 
himself, as is still the case today with a small 
portion of the population. In order to get man to come 
to this understanding, he had to experience its 
opposite. That is, the conflict, the pains of 
civilization, would act to cause man to evolve himself 
further than nature could force him, so that he gained 
full control of his incarnate being. The unification of 
that being, through the elimination of both internal 
and external conflict, would cause man to eventually 
express not only the third-ray influence of Active 
Intelligence, but also the second-ray influence of 
Love-Wisdom, acting as the cause and goal of right 
human relations. Man had to learn to live with man in 
ways that would be beneficial to all, despite the 
pressure to conquer and eliminate opponents." 

(At this point, I felt that I was having some 
difficulty getting the information clearly, and asked 
Liiansa if there was anything that might help. He 
indicated that it would help to use the word of spirit 
I had been given, with the first key. But since I was 
ill with some infection at the moment, he suggested I 
stop here and continue another time, so as to not over-
stress my body.)

(Later that evening, I decided that the difficulty 
was due to my perceptions not being properly aligned 
with the force invoked. To try to correct the problem, 
I did an invocation of Nuit using my self-developed 
version of the VIIIth degree OTO method. Her relation 
to the idea of alignment is through the Tarot card now 
known as The Star, which shows at its top a star 
surrounded by seven smaller stars in a partial circle. 
I associate the center star with Polaris, and the seven 
stars with the stars of Draco, which were related to 
her in early times. Since the position of Polaris is an 
expression of the Earth's center of rotation, it 
represents the alignment of the manifest and unmanifest 
parts of existence, the mundane and the "heavenly". It 
is also interesting to note that in Achad's Tree of 
Life, the sum of the paths of the Supernal Triangle, 
which has this path as its base, is 510, the numeration 
of ThNIN, Draco.

(The immediate effect of the invocation was to 
relieve me of the stress my illness had put on me, and 
to allow me a good night's sleep for the first time in 
several nights. Her answer to my request for the 
missing key to perceiving this story properly was given 
to me in the dreams I had that night, which will be 
described below.)

4/19/86
11:23 AM

I invoked Liiansa using the usual methods. He 
appeared to me in vision in the same form as the 
previous day's, but lacking the book he had held at 
that time. Instead, his left hand now held a phoenix 
wand, and his right hand an ankh. His skin was an 
indigo color today.

I saluted him with the signs of Set and of LVX, 
and he answered with those signs. Testing him with the 
pentagram and the Hexagram of Saturn caused him to 
formulate more clearly. He came forward, and called on 
me to take the wand and ankh from him. I did so, and 
asked what the purpose of these gifts was.

He replied, "Now that you have found how to use 
the invocatory word of the spirit in its proper 
fashion, you are entitled to use these tools, which are 
the expression of the spirit of life, and of its return 
to incarnation in new forms. Both of these are part of 
the symbolism of yourself who is Set. He is the master 
of life, and the master of death. His power of going 
takes men to the stars, where Horus can only touch them 
through the sun.

"Take these tools, and make use of them in your 
rituals of the spirit, and their power will be 
multiplied greatly, to your benefit and the benefit of 
the earth whom you seek to raise.

"Now, let us go on with the story as we have begun 
it. Yesterday, we were about to explain the manner in 
which intra-human conflict on a large scale was 
introduced to the world, in order that men might learn 
of the power of Love-wisdom through the expression of 
its negative side, which is repulsion-conflict. By 
exhausting the possibilities of the latter in manifest 
experience, they eventually were and are being forced, 
individually and as a group, to come to the realization 
that the former is the higher expression.

"To do this was something you could not do 
yourself, as you knew in that time. For your own 
nature, being of the Will aspect, was too far from the 
natures of men to affect them directly. So, in this 
time, you decided to turn over the main focus of the 
incarnate work, the work in the world, to your 
alternate. Being of the Love aspect, in its Will sub-
aspect, his expression was closer to theirs, and so he 
was better able to introduce that idea which would 
eventually result in the conflict you desired.

"How was this to be done? The symbols of the 
mother and the self-begotten son were already strong in 
the earth at the time we speak of, and had no further 
need of encouragement to continue their flow of force 
into the world. Had this flow been allowed to continue 
unobstructed, then man would not have advanced much 
further than he had at that time, living a natural life 
in a natural world. The association of the mother is 
too strong to be overcome without an equally strong 
opposing viewpoint being available. The stars of night 
now had to be masked by the brilliance of the Sun, who 
is closer to man but less holy than her. But the sun is 
the soul, and the soul is what you sought to bring men 
to, through the harmonizing of conflict.

"This is where your alternate came into the 
picture, as the opponent of the forces of night, and 
the proponent of the power of Sol. Sol is of the second 
ray of Love-wisdom, as has been said before, and your 
alternate in his essential nature embodied that force, 
as has also been said.

"Even in those very early times, before the 
beginnings of civilization, it was known how men and 
women united to produce children. But the power of the 
father was seen to be merely a stimulus to a process 
that was inherent in the female, the manifest aspect of 
the Mother. Now the father, the male, had to take on 
his own power, and understand his own place as the key 
to power. In effect, the martial side of life, which no 
longer could fully express itself in the fight against 
nature, had now to be channeled into higher levels, 
where it could affect the course of men's minds and 
actions towards each other on a large scale.

"And so the first revisionists of the spirit were 
born onto earth, and developed, over a period of 
millennia, a current opposing the current of the 
mother. This was the solar current, with its symbolism 
of the sun who dies and is reborn, without the aid of 
the mother. In later days, this expressed itself in the 
temples of Horus, Osiris, and of the Jews and 
Christians. It was the system of hierarchical 
dominance, as opposed to the natural association and 
merger of abilities which was the hallmark of the 
mother's symbolism. Man fought man, following the ways 
he observed among the animals, fighting each other to 
establish which should rule, which should be the one to 
breed, and therefore to carry on his life into the 
future.

"This was also the earliest time in which the 
power of Saturn was raised up to Binah, figuratively 
speaking, and the power of the Mother cast down into 
Malkuth. The new philosophy denied her her place in the 
heavens, and put up the father, in the form of the 
authoritarian figure, the so-called "Alpha male", in 
her place.

"The religions of the mother were not cast down 
permanently in that time. For many ages, lasting into 
the dynastic times of Egypt, she again came to power 
for periods. But these periods grew shorter and shorter 
as the millennia progressed, and the periods of 
dominance by the father-gods became longer, until in 
these later days, in the late Hebrew, the Greek (to a 
lesser extent), and the Roman and christian religions, 
she has been effectively wiped out as a manifest power, 
even though her adherents and servants continue to do 
her work on earth. In fact, their work has been helped 
by her loss of mundane power, for her practitioners 
could develop their work in secrecy, and with their 
full attention, instead of being distracted by the 
needs of running a civilization. So her inner power, 
and that of her child Set, increased substantially at 
the same time that their outer power decayed.

"You will recall, from an earlier invocation, your 
memories and feelings of a time in the early period of 
the Egyptian civilization when you and your opponent 
were both incarnate at the same place and same time. 
The place was a temple of the mother and son in the 
southern part of that country. At the time, you were 
incarnate as a woman, a senior priestess of that 
particular cult. One of the methods by which the cult 
tried to express the idea of the mother and son was in 
the way of having women have children fathered by their 
own children, or the children of other priestesses. In 
this way, they hoped to produce a son eventually who 
fully expressed the power of the mother, being 
different from her only in the one gene that caused him 
to be male.  (They of course did not think of it in 
terms of genes, but came to a similar conclusion by 
direct observation of breeding experiments with 
animals.)

"In that particular life, the adversary in this 
contest, your appointed alternate for the eventual 
awakening of the Earth spirit, was incarnate in one of 
the bodies of these male children. But unlike most who 
resulted from such processes, and were conditioned by 
the teachings of the temple to accept their place in 
things (which was a good one for the times), he, from 
the first moments of his conscious selfhood, desired to 
be free of the influence of women. He disliked being 
subordinate to any being, and he perceived the women, 
being physically weaker than the males he saw in the 
temple and outside it, as being naturally subordinate 
to himself. Like the male lion with whom he later has 
identified himself, his will was purely to dominance of 
self over others, the innate expression of his 
perceived superiority to men. 

"As he grew in that time, and came to his physical 
maturity, he was trained in the methods of the temple, 
in the ritual of uniting male and female for the 
purposes of the gods and the priestesses. His power was 
so great that he took the training much more rapidly 
than most, and by the time he was fifteen, he had 
accomplished the full training and become an initiate 
of the temple. 

"But, despite his power and authority in the 
temple, due to his magickal skills, he found his new 
position even more aggravating. He saw his own 
abilities as superior to those of all the other temple-
workers, and believed himself to be the natural leader 
of the temple. But above him stood yourself, his actual 
physical mother, as well as the head of that temple. No 
matter how great his accomplishments, it seemed he 
could never get away from your perceived dominance. 
This created great hate, a great force of the rejective 
aspect of love-wisdom within him. And he determined to 
overcome you by any means possible of accomplishment.

"Within the temple, as we have said, there were 
many young men. These were educated, and if found 
unsuitable for the priesthood were given honorable 
positions managing the affairs and properties of the 
temple. Many of these latter were also resentful, for 
reasons like or unlike those of your opponent. These he 
sounded out, with a proposition that they take over the 
temple themselves, and raise themselves up as its 
leaders. He found many who would go along with him for 
one reason or another. He also sounded out those 
outside the structure of the temple, the hunter and 
worker classes, and got many of the strongest of these 
to agree to his plan. Thus he obtained the forces 
needed to conquer the temple.

"In the night he opened the gates of the temple, 
and called in his assistants and conspirators. 
Together, they attempted to slay all those who came 
within their reach, so that none would survive to tell 
of their evil. But many heard the noise of their 
attack, and managed to escape through other entrances. 
(Tactics was not one of your opponent's strong points, 
in that time or later times.) And so many lived to 
preserve the knowledge and warn other temples of the 
impending change. Many of those who escaped hid within 
the temples of other gods and goddesses, in other 
places, and as small groups within these temples 
preserved the symbology of the mother and son.

"Now, on the morning, this one called forth the 
peoples of the area, and declared from the steps of the 
temple that a new aeon had arisen, in which the elder 
gods were thrown down, to make place for the new, chief 
of whom was to be the Child of Victory, the conquering 
child, who he claimed to embody in himself. Thus was 
born the first of the "official" Sun-gods, he who later 
became Horus.

"You yourself were captured in that raid, by the 
express will of your son and adversary. And you became 
the first of the "official" victims of Horus, as your 
son sacrificed you to his new image of the gods.

"Note the irony of this, o scribe! In this present 
day, in that last life of his and of yours, did he 
again attempt to declare the aeon of Horus, and to 
absorb the intent of your will in this time into 
himself, thus becoming the one to reopen the earth to 
the stars. He even dared to adopt your own symbolism in 
his effort! The parallels between that time and this 
are exact, save that since you were in a male body this 
last time, he must needs take out his hate of women 
upon others in your stead. Nevertheless, his attack 
upon your being in that last life, through the magickal 
link created by your oaths to him and his organization, 
are a correspondence to his slaying of you in that 
earlier time. The gods laugh at him, as he stands 
before them now, exposed for the fool that he is in his 
failure.

"Yet much of good was accomplished by him, 
nevertheless. He never knew of your secret intent that 
events happen in just that fashion, in that day as in 
this. For Set, who is Achad, the Isolated One, who is 
yourself, does keep his secrets well (even from 
himself, if need be), hidden on the levels beyond the 
reach of those that he has manipulated for the 
development of man, and the raising of the Earth. 

"Thus in that time did he serve your will by 
bringing the forces of conflict between groups to a new 
pitch of intensity, inaugurating the forceful 
development of the emotional and mental natures of man. 
And thus in this present time, through his will to 
succeed, and to be the opener of the stars for man, did 
he have to revive the very doctrines that in earlier 
days he did suppress. Thus again is he the tool of his 
own downfall, his actions against your body in that 
last life providing the shock that, when its recoil 
returned to him, knocked his own intent askew, and left 
him sitting on the sidelines in this most important of 
times. All as you intended. For never could he see that 
in death was your victory, your opportunity to come 
again in another form and another place, to continue 
the fight for the freedom of men from the subjection of 
the gods.

"Thus also in those old days, when the priests of 
the mother and son who had hidden among the other gods' 
priests summoned up again in secret the force of your 
will, to continue the work. The many tales of Set 
returning in the god-forms related to other gods, only 
to be slain again by Horus, or by his successor Osiris, 
reflect the fact that no matter how hard he tried, in 
his many incarnations, he just could not destroy the 
intent of your work, nor could he make it his own. He 
attempted to control the world, through his many god-
forms in many nations, but the more order he brought 
about, the more disorder resulted. Thus did Set ever 
conquer Horus. Thus did the sacrificial victim become 
the god, while the slayer was bound away by his own 
acts. We laugh at him, laugh and gloat, at the great 
one fallen so low! Yet how could he expect otherwise, 
with his will bound to an ill purpose from the 
beginning?"

(All during this speech the astral area in which 
we stood echoed with huge laughter, and a feeling of 
immense humor, coming from some point not seen. As if 
the universe itself were greatly amused.)

"Now we are done with the tale that I am to tell, 
and the rest of the story of Set and Horus, and their 
works in the Earth, will be told by the last two of the 
Seniors, Ahmlicv and Laidrom, and by the Sun-King of 
the Tablet, Iczhihal.

"But it might be good to explain a few things from 
your own life's recent events, to show how even in this 
time has Horus-Osiris attempted in his feeble way to 
interfere with your work.

"First, I would like to cover the incidents that 
took place in Indianapolis. First, tell the tale of the 
policemen, then that of the authority who employed you. 
Then I will explain for those who read how these fit 
with the story we are telling. Finally we will look at 
the dreams of last night, which are rather clever 
answers by the goddess to your questions, and also show 
a new bit of the symbolism of Cancer, as it relates to 
the work."

(I was still a bit ill this day, and tired 
rapidly, so I delayed writing the description, and 
getting the rest of the presentation until the next 
day, 4/20/86.)

After the completion of the invocations described 
in Touring the Earth Tablet, I was in Indianapolis on 
an assignment from my then-employer, the Federal 
government, to teach some new employees my job. I 
continued to work with the current instigated by the 
invocations during that time. Set first appeared openly 
as an operator in the work while I was there.

The incident with the policemen occurred the first 
day after Set announced himself. In the evening, I was 
in my room at the Hyatt Regency Hotel, room 1216. It 
was around 11:00 pm, and I had settled down to do an 
invocation of Set using my version of the VIIIth degree 
methods. I had also smoked some pot a while earlier for 
relaxation, and still had my supply out, but disguised 
from view by being in a plastic shopping bag from a 
local department store.

I had been doing the invocation for some few 
minutes, and had a strong feeling of being filled with 
the force of the god, when a loud pounding came from 
the door. I went to the door and opened it a crack to 
see who was there. What I saw was two policemen, one 
with his hand on his gun and his thumb on the hammer, 
and several persons behind him in medical green 
clothes. All of them were looking at me as if I were a 
particularly obnoxious laboratory specimen they were 
about to dissect.

The cop with his hand on his gun told me to open 
the door and let him in so that he could ask me some 
questions. I asked him to explain his reasons, but he 
refused to give them. I then told him to wait while I 
put on some pants. But as I moved to close the door, he 
pushed against it and forced his way into the room, 
followed by all the others with him.

Since there appeared to be nothing I could do 
about his forced entry, I got some pants on, and turned 
to question him about his purpose. He did not answer, 
but started grilling me about what I had been doing 
that evening, whether I had made any phone calls, who I 
had seen, where I was from, and what I was doing in 
Indy. I answered every question responsively, as seemed 
prudent, and repeated my demand for information after 
every question. Meanwhile, his partner looked around 
the room, not touching anything, but obviously looking 
for something actionable. The second time I protested 
this, he came back and stood by his partner.

After about ten minutes of this grilling, the cops 
turned and left, followed by the others, still with no 
explanation given. The next day, I called the hotel 
management to protest this treatment, and the lack of 
hotel security personnel on hand to protect my own 
interests. After checking with the police, the manager 
(who had never been informed of this impromptu raid) 
called back to explain that the cops had had an 
anonymous call saying that someone was going to suicide 
by jumping off the twelfth floor balcony of the hotel. 
Since I was the only person living on the twelfth floor 
that day, the cops had made a beeline for my room, on 
the idea that wrong action was better than no action.

The second incident(s) involved my relationship 
with my employer. One day in class, I had been asked 
some questions about matters of import to new 
employees, such as the promotion possibilities, chances 
for raises, working environment, benefits, etc. I had 
answered these questions truthfully, saying that 
promotions were becoming rare, salaries would continue 
to stay far behind the national average, benefits were 
being rapidly eroded, and that the pensions system was 
clearly headed for dissolution. 

Naturally, this caused more than a little upset 
among the local management. They wanted me to tell the 
trainees that everything was all right with the 
government, and that they could expect all sorts of 
great and wonderful things to come out of their work. I 
told them that if they wanted to have fairy tales told, 
they would have to do it themselves, and that I would 
in the future refer any such questions to them.

About a week later, I was talking with the local 
manager, who appeared to be a nice person as an 
individual, afterhours at a local restaurant-lounge. 
She had asked me what my true feeling about the agency 
were, and after getting her assurance that my answers 
would be held in strictest confidence, I told her 
exactly what I thought the problems with the agency 
were, and that the problems came from the very top 
management. 

The next day, I found that not only had she not 
kept the confidence as she had sworn, but had 
immediately called the regional commissioner and 
blabbed the whole thing. The commissioner came down, 
along with one of her assistants, and I found myself in 
a good approximation of a star-chamber proceeding. No, 
more like the Inquisition, at least in atmosphere.

They had gathered, I was told, to decide whether a 
person of my clearly heretical views, who had dared to 
actually criticize the gods of the agency, had any 
business teaching the minds of innocent young trainees. 
They first discussed my comments to the class about 
benefits, trying to convince me that I was wrong. When 
I countered by quoting substantial evidence in favor of 
my statements, in the form of the documented actions of 
their own superiors, and of the current administration, 
they gave up on that tack.

Then they went to work on the comments I had made 
to the manager. These, they said, were the worst form 
of heresy, and the only way I could get back into their 
good graces would be by recanting the whole thing in 
writing, and apologizing in person to those I had 
mentioned. The fact that the information was given in 
strictest confidence, and they only knew about it 
through the actions of an oath-breaker made no 
difference to them. If I said it once, I could say it 
again in the future, with more damaging effect to their 
reputations, particularly that of the commissioner who 
headed this panel. I declined to do as they told me to 
do, and matters rested there for the moment.

Two days later I had the misfortune to contract 
pneumonia from the usual nasty Indianapolis winter. I 
called in sick, and mailed them a statement from the 
doctor I had seen saying that I would be too ill to 
work or travel for at least ten days. On Friday of that 
week, two minutes before the close of business, I got a 
call from the lowest-ranked person on the office's 
management team, telling me that they were cutting off 
my per diem as of noon the next day, and I was being 
reassigned to my home office.

I protested that I was too ill to travel, and 
asked that it be extended. In fact, I was running a 103 
degree fever at that moment. I was told that everyone 
authorized to make that decision would be out of town 
until after the end of the next week. I was also told 
that they had already called the hotel and told them I 
was moving out.

So I ended up driving 500 miles, in half-hour 
segments so I could rest, half delirious with fever, in 
the middle of winter. Being forced to do this added at 
least two weeks to the time it took to recover from 
this illness. It also lead to my rapid resignation from 
that organization. I'm too stinking proud to work for 
scum like that.

Liiansa's comment: "The meaning of these two 
events in the light of our tale here should be fairly 
clear. It was a last-ditch effort by the forces of 
Horus-Osiris to get you off the path of your destiny. 
Government is of course heavily Osirian, since Osiris 
was a black god, and black is the color of Saturn, and 
of the astrological Capricorn, which rules government.

"Two attempts were made. These reflect the usual 
actions of the Horan-Osirian powers towards 
individuals, and they expected you to react in the 
usual way, giving them something they could use to 
either hang you or put you back firmly under their 
control.

"The policemen are enforcers of the authority of 
the government, their powerful arm. So long as police 
exist, it is possible for the group that controls them 
to say 'Do what we want or we will kill you'. All 
government, no matter where in the world you look 
today, is based solely and deeply on this principle of 
forced obedience. Not one of them, not one anywhere, is 
truly responsive to the will of the individuals over 
whom and in whose name they claim to govern.

"Had the force of the Osirian current had its 
effect on the anonymous mentally ill person who made 
the call to the police a little earlier than it did, 
then it is quite possible that you would have been 
caught smoking pot, and the amount you held on you at 
that time would have been sufficient for a long prison 
sentence. 

"But, as is usual, the forces could not act 
quickly enough. Never is a government really able to 
control events, no matter how hard it tries or 
oppresses its people. It always and only reacts to what 
is forced upon it. The self-styled "rulers" of the 
lands think they are the top of the heap, but in fact 
they are whores, dishonest ones at that, incapable of 
initiating anything truly new into the world. All they 
can do is take what the world throws at them, and try 
and twist it to their purpose. But never do they catch 
up. Always, Set is one step ahead of them, creating new 
things to disorder their system faster than they can 
control them. This delay is inherent in the force of 
Saturn that they have co-opted to their own purpose, 
though they never realize it. Thus in this case, the 
force of Set within yourself, making you stand up to 
the police instead of quaking fearfully as they had 
hoped and expected, countered the force of the Osirians 
sent to derail you again. 

"Similarly for your confrontation with your 
employers. You had already had a full exposure to Set's 
force, and nothing their little bureaucratic minds 
could do, filled as they were with the fear of ruin by 
their superiors, would have caused you to go back to 
their way of doing things. Again, it was too little, 
too late, and so will it always be.

"Now, you took this force of Saturn that had been 
sent at you, and used it in the way it was intended to 
be used, in the beginning of time. Saturn truly relates 
to Malkuth, as the barrier between the Tree of Life and 
those realms that lie below it, with which none of any 
spirit will deal. Being Malkuth, he relates also to the 
crystallization or outward expression of the inward 
will. And so did you use it, crystallizing your 
decision to quit their ways and go your own, which had 
been building for some time.

"It was no accident that the forces came at you 
just as Set, who is Achad, who is the core of yourself, 
appeared on the scene. The actions of light, until they 
are firmly established in the person, always generate 
an opposition. It is natural that this be so, and also 
convenient, for it forms a sort of final test of the 
effectiveness of your work. Had you not actually 
succeeded in your intent in the Earthworks, then these 
things would not have appeared. So even the shells 
unwittingly have acknowledged the appearance of the new 
master, and again shown themselves to be the inferior.

"Now as to the dreams, I will summarize them to 
save time. You had invoked Nuit to find out the key to 
what I was trying to say, the concept that would allow 
your intuition to understand it whole. The first dream 
was short, and only one image is of relevance to our 
discussion here. In it, your mother handed you a key, 
in the form of a small red obelisk or menhir. You 
discovered that this key was to a car. But rather than 
going directly into the keyhole of the ignition, it 
went into a loop that allowed it to be used as a lever, 
like a torque wrench, to start the car.

"The mother is obviously a symbol of Nuit, as you 
have already interpreted it. The key is a form of the 
pyramid, representing the path of Shin, which connects 
Kether with Tiphereth in your system. The loop it went 
into is the yoni, here representing the lower aspect of 
your being who is the scribe.

"The car is a form of the Tarot card The Chariot, 
since an automobile is a vehicle which is powered by 
the elements. That is, it moves by burning (fire) in a 
vaporous form (air) a liquid (water) derived from the 
ground (earth). Exactly as the chariot of the card is 
drawn by sphinxes of the elements. So in all, this 
image indicated that the key you sought is to be found 
in the union of spirit-fire with its opposite, in the 
sign of Cancer.

"Just to drive in the point, you were caused to 
awake from the dream at exactly 4:18 am. And the 
invocation was done on 4/18. The significance of the 
date did not occur to you until you saw the time at 
which you awoke.

"Now Cancer is a water sign, and therefore has to 
do with distribution and dissolution of things in some 
fashion. In the context of this story we are telling, 
we will look at it in a slightly different fashion than 
it is usually interpreted.

"In the normal interpretation, Cheth, Cancer 
represents the dissolution of the lower self in 
ecstatic union with the higher spirit. With the lower 
self gone, the bodies of the person that live below 
Tiphereth become a shell, like the knight's armor, that 
is empty except for the spiritual forces, with no real 
personal self to be seen. This is in accord with the 
traditional astrological interpretation of this sign 
except that it is on a higher level.

"The dream was in part an acknowledgment that you 
are achieving this level of union in your work with 
Set/Achad. You are almost ready at this point to 
reverse yourself and acknowledge that you are indeed as 
we have presented you to be, in the Earth Tablet 
working. Already, your magickal memory has opened 
widely, and you have had many glimpses of your other 
lives, as they relate to your overall work and your 
work in this time and place. These will continue and 
improve in clarity and precision as you progress.

"But as I said, the dream was also the answer to 
your question. Remember that your purpose at the time 
we have been speaking of was to generate a counter-
force to the Sirian force you represent in the earth, 
so that by conflict men would come to understand the 
causes of conflict and learn eventually to establish 
right relations among themselves.

"So look at the symbol of the sign of Cancer. It 
is made of two lower-case sigmas, one turned upside 
down and pushed so that its tail is below the body of 
the other. The uninitiated astrologer often says that 
this is a picture of the claws of the crab, but this is 
not the case. The initiate frequently associates it 
with the symbol of yin-yang, again associating it with 
the merger of opposites.

"But it is also a glyph of the whirlpool, which is 
a concentration of water into a distinct form within a 
larger sea of undifferentiated water. The whirlpool is 
a shell-full of air within the water, again relating 
back to the Tarot card.

"Consider how a whirlpool comes into being. It is 
caused by two currents of opposing vector sliding past 
each other. The friction of their passage transfers 
momentum, changing the vector forces along the 
interface so that they turn and become circular in 
their movement. Your satellites have photographed any 
number of these whirlpools where the Gulf stream goes 
past the main body of the Atlantic along the east coast 
of your land.

"In this case, you needed to generate such a 
whirlpool, a vortex (to use the magickal term) in the 
mental and emotional levels of being, so that the 
spirit could find a way into those levels. It is 
fortunate that you had the ideal method of doing so 
immediately to hand, or your work would have been much 
more difficult than it was.

"Remember that you yourself are of the First ray 
of Will, and the sub-ray of Love-wisdom, represented by 
the term 'love under will'. Your alternate is of the 
Second ray of Love-wisdom, and the sub-ray of Will, so 
that he might be termed 'will under love'. So the 
vectors of your individual forces, along one dimension, 
are exactly opposite to each other.

"Your own force, as I have said, was already 
firmly established in the minds of men at that time, 
between seven and eight thousand years B.C. In order to 
generate the conflict you desired, so that man might 
become conscious of the gods while in the body, you 
merely had to give your alternate his head, and allow 
him to attempt to fulfill his own plan within the 
world. Naturally you did not tell him of your real 
purpose, but held it concealed on levels he could not 
yet reach. Remember your origin, and what we have said 
about your level of achievement at the time you were 
first called to the Solar system.

"Rather, you put a different face on it, one he 
would find believable. In a conclave on the inner 
planes around 7000 B.C., you informed him and his 
followers that it was your will that they take over the 
next part of the work, and do it according to their own 
ways. The reason you gave was that you had realized 
that your own type of force, the First ray, was too far 
from the consciousness of men to be effective, and also 
too dangerous to be allowed into the world in its pure 
form. You said that it could only cause destruction if 
introduced at this point. Your opponent, expressing his 
usual Second-ray faults, believed you implicitly since 
your words fit with his own evaluation of the 
situation. 

"For two and a half millennia, you allowed them a 
free hand in creating their works. You effectively 
withheld yourself from action on any large scale, 
although you continued to support fully those who 
followed your way. But you made no effort to expand 
your power base on earth, and allowed your alternate to 
create in the minds of men those ideas that would 
eventually cause a flow of power along his own lines. 

"He introduced conflicting ideas along two lines 
that affected yours directly. First, he emphasized the 
group over the