From defrat@chartres.ee.tulane.eduMon Dec  4 08:02:02 1995
Date: Sun, 3 Dec 1995 23:39:03 -0600 (CST)
From: Mark Defrates <defrat@chartres.ee.tulane.edu>
To: tzimon@crl.com
Subject: no subject (file transmission)



This is the first part of a three part essay written by
marik (Mark Defrates).  Comments, suggestions, criticisms
can be sent to marik@aol.com.

Sigils,Servitors, and Godforms

Sigils, servitors and god-forms are three magickal techniques that chaos 
magicians use to actualize magickal intentions.  Sigils are magickal 
spells developed and activated to achieve a specific, fairly well defined 
and often limited end.  Servitors are entities created by a magician and 
charged with certain functions.  Godforms are complex belief structures, 
often held by a number of people, with which a magician interacts in order 
to actualize fairly broad magickal intentions.  These three techniques are 
not quite as distinct as these definitions would suggest, they tend to blur 
into one another. The purpose of this essay is to explain these magickal 
tools,  indicate their appropriateness for different types of magickal 
intentions, and show how these tools relate to the general theories of 
chaos magick and of Dzog Chen, a form of Tibetan Buddhism.

Part One:Sigils


1.  A Universe neither of Man nor God


The use of the techniques of the chaos magician presupposes a certain 
stance, or attitude, towards magick that is relatively new in the history 
of the occult.  This stance may, for lack of a better word, be described as 
postmodern, since it is neither traditional nor modern.  The differences 
between these three approaches to magick - traditional, modern or 
postmodern  can be elucidated as three conceptions of the nature of the 
universe.  The traditional approach is based in Judeo-Christian 
metaphysics and views the universe as anthropomorphic, in the image of 
the Christian God, or less rarely, some other anthropomorphic form. The 
traditional  magician believes that the universe is understandable by 
human consciousness because human beings are made in the image of God. 
The modern view is essentially a reaction to this and humanist in the 
extreme.  Here the universe may be perceived as Newtonian, as a machine 
that is ultimately understandable by human consciousness, although 
humans may have to evolve into a more powerful form to be able to do  
this.  The postmodern view of the chaoist denies that the universe can 
ever be understood by the human mind.  Influenced by modern physics, 
particularly quantum mechanics and chaos theory, the chaos magician 
tends to accept the universe as a series of phenomena that have little to 
do with human beings.  In other words traditional magick can be said to be 
God centered, modern magick to be human centered while postmodern 
magick eschews the very idea of a center.  A brief review of traditional 
and modern approaches to ceremonial magick may help to illuminate the 
postmodern stance of the freestyle chaoist.

Ceremonial magicians use ritual magick to create effects in themselves 
or in the universe that they do not feel they can as efficiently bring about 
through normal means.  All magicians agree that magick can cause change, 
but few would argue that the change is inevitable, completely predictable, 
or fully knowable by the magician.  All magicians, to a greater or lesser 
extent, are engaged in an ongoing dynamic in which the issues of personal 
desire, personal control and personal belief are thrust against the 
strictures of the  universal consensual belief structure, the concept of 
will as a universal force, and the ideas of fate, predestination, and karma. 
At the core of this confrontation is the question of the nature of the 
universe.  The question is: is the universe human centered, designed, 
created and maintained by a god force, or is it, as modern science seems 
to indicate, just there? 

Until recently, magicians have tended to distinguish amongst themselves 
by hue, and the colors of the magician (white, gray or black) refer 
precisely to this dynamic, the confrontation between the personal wishes 
of the magician and a universal standard of morality or law.  White, and to 
an extent, grey magicians, attempt to remove themselves from the debate 
by insisting that their magickal acts are inspired only by the highest 
motives of service and self-knowledge, that, indeed, they wish only to do 
the will of higher powers known as their Holy Guardian Angels.  Perdition 
shall blast, so they say, those who use magick for self-centered or 
materialistic ends.  Grey magicians may proclaim that the use of magickal 
powers for materialistic ends is valid sometimes, but rarely for selfish 
reasons, and in any event, is always problematical.  Donald Michael Kraig, 
with the breezy superficiality of the traditional magus, in  _Modern Magick_ 
terms white magick the use of magickSfor the purpose of obtaining the 
Knowledge and Conversation of your Holy Guardian AngelS(1), grey magick 
as magick used Rfor the purpose of causing either  physical or non-
physical good to yourself or to othersS(2) and black magick as magick 
used Rfor the purpose of causing either physical or non-physical harm to 
yourself or othersS(3).  Kraig is influenced by Aleister Crowley and by 
modern Wicca, or Gardnerian witchcraft. Wiccans, ever concerned that 
their white magick might slide through some unconscious twitch of desire 
through grey into black, corrected CrowleyUs axiomRDo What Thou Wilt 
Shall Be the Whole of the LawS with the enervating modifier RAn it Harm 
NoneS.   Kraig, worried that readers of his treatise might fall Rinto the pit 
of the black magician,S encourages neophyte mages to practice only white 
magick.  Fortunately, before he is two thirds of the way through his book 
Kraig is happily discoursing on talismans, grimoires, and the correct 
methods for disposing of recalcitrant demons.  Few magicians can resist 
the lure of dark magick, despite protestations of innocence.  This is 
because even Wiccan influenced magicians are not, as Wiccans are, 
devotees of a religion.  That is to say magicians are interested in the 
dynamic of personal will versus (in CrowleyUs term) True Will, while 
Wiccans have resolved this issue.  While the occasional conflict may 
remain, Wiccans, like Christians, Jews, and Moslems understand that they 
have agreed to submit their wills to that which they construe to be the 
Will of their deities.  Magicians, on the other hand, are not so sure.  This, 
more than any other factor, accounts for the intense suspicion those of a 
religious cast view those who practise magick.

The designation of black magician still tends to be a term that magicians 
use to vilify other magicians.  Aleister Crowley, arguably the single 
greatest influence on the development of magick in this century, and, for 
the purposes of this essay, defined as a traditional magician, used the 
term in this way. In _Magick_, for example, he asserted Rany will but that 
to give up the self to the Beloved is Black Magick,S(4). That is to say, any 
use of magick unlike his use of magick is black magick.  Elsewhere 
Crowley muttered darkly about the existence of RBlack LodgesS and RBlack 
BrothersS, magicians who chose to remain in the Abyss, the metaphysical 
gap between the first three sephiroth and the remainder of the Tree of 
Life.  A magus of this hue, Crowley stated, secretes Rhis elements around 
his Ego as if isolated from the UniverseS(5), and turns his back on the true 
aim of magick, which according to Aleister, is the Rattainment of the 
Knowledge and Conversation of the Holy Guardian Angel.  It is the raising 
of the complete man in a vertical straight line.  Any deviation from this 
line tends to become black magic.  Any other operation is black 
magickS(6).As students of mysticism will recognize, this goal is identical 
with the mysticUs goal of the union of the self with God.  Crowley, of 
course, wrote with his feet firmly planted in the Judeo-Christian 
paradigm, a paradigm in which the universe  is visualized as Adam 
Kadmon, the Great Man, and is thus wholly anthropomorphized. 

In 1969, Anton LaVey posited the argument of the modern black magician 
when in_The Satanic Bible_  he asserted RNo one on earth ever pursued 
occult studies, metaphysics, yoga, or any other Twhite lightU concept 
without ego gratification or personal power as a goal R(7).  Moreover, 
LaVey claimed RThere is no difference between TWhiteU and TBlackU magic 
except in the smug hypocrisy, guilt ridden righteousness, and self-deceit 
of the TWhiteU magician himselfS(8).  Thus the term black magician began 
to be associated with a style of magick that did not distinguish between 
self-interest and self-knowledge.  LaVey in his organization, The Church 
of Satan, and later Michael Aquino in his schismatic order, The Temple of 
Set,  argued that the will of the individual magician was paramount. Both 
denied even the existence of a universal Will.  LaVey stated RThe Satanist 
realizes that man, and the action and reaction of the universe, is 
responsible for everything and doesnUt mislead himself into thinking that 
someone cares.S (9) Michael Aquino asserted RThe Black Magician, on the 
other hand, rejects both the desirability of union with the Universe and 
any self-deceptive tactics designed to create such an illusionS(10). 

Unfortunately the refusal of modern black magicians to deal with the 
possibility that man may not be at the center of the universe, or may just 
be one in a large series of interdependent phenomena leads to an error.  
Reluctant, it seems, even to adopt completely a materialistic or 
mechanistic view of the universe, LaVey and Aquino embrace the ghost in 
the machine and assert that the individual ego can continue after death.  
Thus LaVey stated RIf a person has been vital throughout his life and has 
fought to the end for his earthly existence, it is this ego which will 
refuse to die, even after the expiration of the flesh that housed itS(11).  
There is, of course, not a shred of evidence to prove that this has ever 
happened nor that it can happen, but magicians of all hues, together with 
the adherents of most of the worldUs religions, continue to assert blandly 
the existence of a transpersonal, individuated spark that somehow is 
exempt from the normal process of birth, life, death, and corruption, a 
kind of eternal homunculus.  Apparently the notion that the universe may 
not actually be human centered is too frightening for Satanists and 
modern black magicians to bear, and the old chestnut of the soul is 
dredged out of the Judeo-Christian quagmire, brushed off, and presented 
as the Rfully gratifiedS ego of the modern immortal Satanist.  

Teetering on the edge of postmodern magick, Peter Carroll, the first 
contemporary popularizer of chaos magick, in _Liber Null and Psychonaut_, 
accepted the idea that the universal force may not be a force that bears 
much relationship to humanity.  He stated:SThe force which initiates and 
moves the universe, and the force which lies at the center of 
consciousness, is whimsical and arbitrary, creating and destroying for no 
purpose beyond amusing Itself.  There is nothing spiritual or moralistic 
about Chaos and Kia.  We live in a universe where nothing is true...S(12).   
Carroll was aware of the true nature of the ego, and stated Rdeveloping an 
ego is like building a castle against realityS(13).  Moreover, he recognized 
that Rthe real Holy Guardian Angel is just the force of consciousness, 
magic, and genius itself, nothing more.  This cannot manifest in a vacuum: 
it is always expressed in some form, but its expressions are not the thing 
itself.S(14)  In this statement Carroll aligned himself with the quantum 
mechanical view of the universe, a view that refuses to discriminate 
phenomena on the basis of dualistic concepts, but stresses the wave like 
nature of energy.  This is also the viewpoint of sophisticated Buddhism.  
The key phrase of the "Prajna Paramita", a critical sutra in the development 
of Buddhist metaphysics, states Rform is only emptiness and emptiness is 
only form.S

Ultimately Carroll, however, was as reluctant as a Satanist to let go of 
the comforting paradigm of the soul or spirit and despite paying lip 
service to a universe in quantum flux stated RThe adept magician however 
will have so strengthened his spirit by magick that it is possible to carry 
it over whole into a new bodyS(15).  This turns out to be a crippling flaw 
in CarrollUs approach to magick and one that reinforces his belief in the 
efficacy of hierarchical magick, a contradiction of the fundamental 
principle of chaos magick, that it replicates the non-ordered flow of 
phenomena in the universe.  The ego, after all, is an ordered construct that 
tolerates nothing so little as the inevitability of change. Perhaps the 
problem lay in CarrollUs assertion that Rphysical processes alone will 
never completely explain the existence of the universeS(16), a statement 
that eventuates from the dualistic, epistemological mindset of Newtonian 
physics and Aristotelian western philosophy.  Perhaps it comes from a 
fear of death.  

Yet concurrent with this discriminatory, black/white, dualistic approach 
of western occultism, there has always been another strain, the 
shamanistic, orgiastic approach that deliberately blurrs these definitions 
and seeks to confront the universe as a dynamic, and non human process.  
This approach, however, has usually been the domain of art and artists 
rather than occultists.  Modern English poetry since Matthew ArnoldUs 
RDover BeachS has been obsessed with reconciling the poetic imagination 
with a stark and inhuman universe.  Arnold recognized the universe in 
1867 as a place that:

	        Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light,
		Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain
		And we are here as on a darkling plain
		Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight,
		Where ignorant armies clash by night 

By the time T.S. Eliot wrote RThe WastelandS in 1922,  he saw the 
universe as Ra heap of broken mirrorsS, an metaphor that aptly describes 
the shattering of the familiar concept of the universe as reflecting a 
human face.  The year before, W.B.Yeats in RThe Second ComingS concurred:

	        Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold;.
		Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world
		The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere
		The ceremony of innocence is drowned;

But the fullest expression of the awareness that the movement of energy 
through the universe is absolute, interpenetrating, and neither 
particularly humane nor human comes in 1934 with Dylan Thomas and: 

	        The force that through the green fuse drives the flower
		Drives my green age; that blasts the roots of trees
		Is my destroyer.
		And I am dumb to tell the crooked rose 
		My youth is bent by the same wintry fever.


This dawning consciousness infuses all the arts, from the movement of                                  
modern art, from Dada and Cubism, through Abstract Expressionism, to 
modern music, from the dissonance of RavelUs RLa ValseS to John Cage to 
minimalism to industrial.  Artists for one hundred and fifty years have 
struggled to depict the face of a chaotic universe, and manUs far from 
central place within it.  In fact, the occult has been one of the last areas 
of human intellectual endeavour to avail itself of this perception of the 
universe.  Not until the development of chaos magick can it truly be said 
that magick has finally started to deal with the insights of modern art and 
modern science. 

Chaos magick derives from a series of magical positions articulated by 
Austin Osman Spare, a contemporary of Aleister Crowley.  SpareUs vision, 
itself influenced by  the work of William Blake, is contained succinctly in 
_The Book of Pleasure_.  SpareUs approach to magick and the universe has 
been validated by the discoveries of the new physics, by quantum science, 
and by chaos mathematics.  The metaphysical basis for SpareUs magick is 
similar to that of Dzog Chen, a form of Tibetan Buddhism, and, in fact, the 
reference and counter reference between  Buddhism, art, science, and 
chaos magick is striking and continuous.  Spare wrote _The Book of 
Pleasure_ between 1909 and 1913, but most of SpareUs work was ignored 
until Carroll began writing about it.  There are a number of reasons for 
this.  SpareUs work was printed in small runs and he did not seek fame.  
His style is elliptical and obscure.  His work is difficult to understand in 
the absence of his lush illustrations, and since the illustrations are 
spells, or more precisely, sigils, they affect a deep level of the  mind and 
tend to distract one from the content of his writing.  His style is 
declaratory, arrogant, and uses a special vocabulary, the definitions for 
which have to be teased out of the text.  But perhaps of most importance, 
SpareUs view of the universe is non-human, and consequently the usual god 
centered or human centered context of magick is absent.  Not until 
contemporary metaphysical thought had changed to allow a non 
anthropomorphic universe did Spare become accessible.  Even now he, 
together with Kenneth Grant,  is one of the least read and least understood 
among modern magickal writers. 

Spare begins with the idea of Kia, of which he says, in an echo of the Tao 
Te Ching, RThe Kia that can be expressed by conceivable ideas is not the 
eternal Kia, which burns up all belief.S(17)  Thus he does not designate by 
name that which later chaos magicians would call Chaos, but concentrates 
on the immediate manifestation of the formless which he describes as 
Rthe idea of selfS.  This is precisely the viewpoint of Dzog Chen.  Dzog Chen, 
a sorcerous form of Buddhism developed by Padmasambhava in the eighth 
century a.c.e., posits the creation of the manifest universe as occurring at 
the instant that the conception of self develops.  Spare said of Kia 
RAnterior to Heaven and Earth,  in its aspect that transcends these, but 
not intelligence, it may be regarded as the primordial sexual principle, the 
idea of pleasure in self-love.S(18)  In Dzog Chen the initial impulse splits 
emptiness from form, nirvana from samsara and develops dualistic 
thinking.  The multiplicity of the universe streams out of this split.  

One of the central symbols of Dzog Chen is the dorje.  A form of magick 
wand, the dorje is composed of two stylized phalluses joined by a small 
central ball.  The dorje is, according to Dzog Chen, a RtermaS, or hidden 
teaching.  This teaching is a treasure hidden by Padmasambhava.  The 
whole of the dorje refers to the unlimited potentiality of the universe, 
and thus, in modern terms, is an image of chaos, or the quantum flux of the 
universe that is before and beyond discriminatory thinking, inseparable, 
indissoluble.  The two ends of the dorje refer, respectively, to form and 
emptiness, or samsara and sunyata.  The small central bead that joins the 
two ends of this bilaterally symmetrical object is hollow to show the 
unknowable potentiality at the intersection between form and emptiness, 
and also to refer back to the chaos current.  Thus the dorje is a three 
dimensional symbol for the way the universe manifests itself from unity 
through duality into its full, lush complexity.  As Spare says RAs unity 
conceived duality, it begot trinity, begot tetragrammaton.S(19)  In a 
statement that presages the modern understanding of the fractal universe 
as an event that is essentially a complex repetition and multiplication of 
a series of simple forms, Spare wrote:

	The dual principle is the quintessence of all experience, no ram-
	ification has enlarged its early simplicity, but is only its repetition,
	modification or complexity, never is its evolution complete.  It 
	cannot go further than the experience of self-so returns and unites
	again and again, ever an anti-climax.  For ever retrogressing to its
	original simplicity by infinite complication is its evolution.  No man 
	shall understand TWhyU by its workings.  Know it as the illusion that
	embraces the learning of all existence.(19)

Recognizing the recursive movement of the movement of energy, or 
consciousness, through the universe, that is to say, of Kia, is essential to 
the understanding of the form of magick that Spare developed because it 
indicates the structure of the spells, sigils, and magickal techniques of 
chaos magick.  Refuting absolutely the notion that this flow of energy is 
ever understandable by dualistic minds, Spare stated unequivocally that 
the magickal energy of the universe, the force that interpenetrates all 
phenomena is non-human.  Moreover Spare required the magician, in order 
to avail himself of this force, to renounce his human belief systems, his 
dualistic mind, to achieve a state of consciousness that, as much as 
possible, mimicked the primordial.  How to do this is the subject of the 
next section of this essay.



2.  Spare, Self-Love and Sigil Magick

Spare recognized that the greatest bar to the successful actualization of 
the magickal intention was self-consciousness, the normal, dualistic 
state of mind that carries the baggage of our cultural context, our 
upbringing, our human or god centered belief system.  Throughout _The 
Book of Pleasure_ he inveighed against the idea of God.  He stated RThe 
idea of God is the primordial sin, all religions are evilS(20)  He warned of 
the toxic effects of self-judgement, of self-analysis while in the 
performance of the magickal act.  He wrote RHe who trusts to his natural 
fund of genius, has no knowledge of its extent and accomplishes with 
ease, but directly he doubts, ignorance obsesses him.S(21)  
  
Spare asserted that the primordial consciousness, or Kia, was 
indistinguishable from the sexual impulse.  This is partly because of the 
dynamics of the manifestation of the universe from chaos.  From chaos 
comes Kia, which immediately becomes duality.  Duality, according to 
Spare, forms a trinity.  This is essentially a procreative act, which Spare 
rightly identified as sexual.  Moreover Spare associated the intense 
experience of sexual orgasm with the experience of Kia.  He wrote:

	Self-love only is the eternal all pleasing, by meditation on this 
	effulgent self which is mystic joyousness.  At that time of bliss, 
	he is punctual to his imagination, in that day what happiness is his!
	A lusty innocent, beyond sin, without hurt!(22)

Access to magickal power, according to Spare, is encouraged by the state 
of consciousness we enter when in orgasm, while the activation of spells 
is facilitated by the sensation of RvacuityS.  This, he wrote Ris obtained 
by exhausting the mind and body by some means or another.S(21)  Sexual 
release was a frequent path to this for Spare, and a common motif in his 
drawings is a hand with fingers curled and thumb outstretched, an image 
of both painting and masturbation.  Variants of this image include a hand 
with eyes, a hand with face, and a hand with wings.  Spare continuously 
sought the integration of magickal concept with magickal gesture (mudra), 
with magickal drawing, with magickal act.  

Spare believed that it was essential to base magickal acts in a state of 
consciousness he terms RNeither-NeitherS, a state of simplicity and pure 
self.   This is a state where, however briefly, the mind has ceased its 
chattering, its continual discourse, and is in a state that can most easily 
be achieved by exhaustion, but may also be a result of sex, alcohol, or 
today, even watching television until the mind has become numb and mute.
The state of vacuity can also be reached by the Rneti netiS technique of 
yoga, a technique in which emotional states and mental concepts are 
annihilated by being opposed against each other. Doubtless Spare was 
aware of this technique when he devised the Neither-Neither formulation 
of vacuity. This technique results in so called Rfree energyS, psychic 
energy that can be used to charge a sigil or infuse a magickal act. Spare 
wrote that magick was Rthe reduction of properties to simplicity.S(22)  
Moreover, he believed that the conscious mind  prevented the fulfillment 
of the magickal intention.  He wrote that conscious desire raises self-
doubt and Rlust for resultS, that it was Rnon-attractiveS, creating 
RanxietyS which Rdefeats the purposeS because Rit retains and exposes the 
desireS(23).

Spare asserted that the ground for magickal action was the Rsub-
consciousnessS, what we would normally call today the subconscious or 
the unconscious mind.  He argued that the place where the magickal spell 
could be seeded was deep within the mind of the magician. He defined the 
subconsciousness as Rthe epitome of  all experience and wisdom, past 
incarnations as men, animals, birds, vegetable life, etc., etc., everything 
that exists, has and ever will exist.S(24)  Spare believed that it was 
possible to reach this Rstorehouse of memoryS through sigils and other 
magickal acts, but he consistently cautioned against using the rational or 
discriminative mind to reach the sub-consciousness.  He wrote Rin 
striving for knowledge we repel it, the mind works best on a simple diet.S  
This stress on simplicity, efficiency and non-rational technique is a 
major characteristic differentiating Spare from most other magicians of 
the Twentieth Century. Spare wrote RBy Sigils and the acquirement of 
vacuity, any past incarnation, experience, etc., can be summoned to 
consciousness.S (25)  He placed himself firmly against the elaborate 
rituals, dogma, and unending learning of the tradition of ceremonial 
magick by stating RKnow all ritual, ceremony, conditions, as arbitrary 
(you have yourself to please), a hindrance and confusion; their origin was 
for amusement, later for the purpose of deceiving others from knowing the 
truth and inducing ignoranceS(26) 

Spare developed a method of sigilising quite unique in the history of 
magick. He maintained that RBelief is the fall from the AbsoluteS(27).  In 
other words, belief as usually practised, was self-defeating because Rwe 
are not free to believe...however much we so desire, having conflicting 
ideas from first exhaust.S(28)  The mind, conditioned by its cultural 
context, the universal consensual belief structure, voices from childhood, 
and many environmental factors, cannot allow pure belief, but always 
muddies the intention of the magician.  SpareUs genius was to develop a 
technique that took this into account and subverted the discursive mind.  
He said Rsigils are the art of believing; my invention for making belief 
organic, ergo, true belief.S(29)  He maintained that Rbelief, to be true, 
must be organic and sub-conscious,S that in order for the magickal desire 
to be effective, it must become organic, and Rcan only become organic at a 
time of vacuity, and by giving it (Sigil) form.S(30) 

Spare stressed not only that the sigil must be implanted in the sub-
consciousness at the moment of vacuity, but that afterwards the magician 
must strive to forget the sigil and the desire from which the sigil was 
crafted.  He wrote
 
	When conscious of the Sigil form (any time but the Magical) it    
	should be repressed, a deliberate striving to forget it, by this it is 
        active and dominates at the unconscious period, its form nourishes 
        and allows it to become attached to the sub-consciousness and 
        become organic, that accomplished, is its reality and realization.           
	(31)

The assertion that Sigils need to be forgotten after they have been 
charged means that sigils are not appropriate for certain magickal 
intentions.  For example, a sigil to accomplish a goal which is  long term 
and daily obsession may not work if the magician is unable to release the 
obsession into the magickal act.  That is to say, if the magician develops a 
sigil to gain a promotion at work, to get good grades at school, or to 
attract a sexual partner, if the day after charging of the sigil the 
magician continues to obsess about his lousy job, his worsening grades or 
his complete inability to get laid, it is unlikely that the sigil will work. 
To give a personal example, it is my wish to actualize a much more 
powerful computer system.  I have sigilized this intention.  Unfortunately, 
every time a computer catalog comes in the mail (almost daily), I see the 
computer system I want and I wonder when my sigil will work.  I wonder 
if it is going to work.  I chastise myself because I am thinking about it 
working.  My mind then proceeds to create all manner of confliucting 
thoughts circling around this topic.  Does magick really work?  Do I 
deserve a better computer system?  Was my father right when he thought I 
would be a failure?  Perhaps if I just mentally shove at the obstacle 
preventing the actualizing of the sigil it will work.  Perhaps I should do 
the sigil again?  Perhaps I should charge it harder?  Clearly, this is Rlust 
for resultS, not to mention fear of success and the multiple dysfunctions 
of personal psychology. In this event, another magickal technique, such as 
the creation of a servitor or a sacrifice to a godform may be more 
appropriate.  Sigilizing is unlikely to work while I am obsessed with a 
new computer system.

The technique for developing sigils that Spare outlines in _The Book of 
Pleasure_ is simplicity itself.   Giving as his magickal intention RThis my 
wish to obtain the strength of a tigerS, Spare analyses the structure of 
the letters of the phrases that make up the sentence containing the 
magickal intention, removes repeating letters, then combines them, and 
finally simplifies them into an iconic symbol.  This symbol will be 
sufficiently remote from the original sentence that it cannot be 
identified.  Thus the only meaning it contains resides in the memory of the 
magician.  Spare wrote :SNow by virtue of this Sigil you are able to send 
your desire into the subconsciousness (which contains all strength)S.(32)  
Carroll suggested two other methods for developing sigils.  In one, a 
picture of the magickal intention is drawn, in  another, the sentence 
containing the magickal intention is transformed into a mantra by, for 
example, removing repeating letters and transposing other letters until a 
euphonious phrase results.  Carroll stated RIt is not necessary to use 
complex symbol systems.S(33)  Spare went further and wrote Ryou do not 
have to dress up as a traditional magician, wizard or priest, build 
expensive temples, obtain virgin parchment, black goats blood, etc., etc., 
in fact no theatricals or humbug.S(34)  Readers interested in these 
methods for constructing sigils are directed to Frater U.D.Us 
comprehensive treatise _Practical Sigil Magick_.  As Frater U.D. indicates 
RIn SpareUs system there are no TcorrectU or TincorrectU sigils; neither is 
there a list of ready-made symbols.  It is of no import whether a sigil is 
the TcorrectU one or not, but it is crucial that it has been created by the 
magician and is therefore meaningful to him/her.S(35) 

SpareUs system of creating sigils is, as Frater U.D. points out, an 
individual-anarchist approach to magick.  It does not require learning 
complex systems, strange incantations, or any of the usual bric-a-brac of 
traditional magick or religion.  It is simple and efficient.  However, 
anarchical as Spare was, he was also a man of his culture and time and his 
system is influenced by ideas that while far from accepted in his day, 
were current.  The idea of the subconscious is clearly influenced by 
psychoanalytic theory, particularly Jung, and SpareUs insistence on the 
primacy of the sexual impulse owes not a little to Freud.  Of course 
SpareUs system works if one believes in psychoanalysis or not, not so 
much because the existence of a deep unconscious, collective or 
otherwise, is any more provable than the existence of a soul, but because 
it subverts the conscious mind and the failure tapes of normal 
consciousness.  Culturally defined consensual belief structures work 
tirelessly against the actualization of  magickal intentions, requiring, at 
the least, refuge in plausible explanations for apparently abnormal events 
or at least some kind of explanation.  Thus unusual events such as the 
actualization of a spell for success in oneUs job, for example, are justified 
by the collective consciousness as something that was bound to happen 
anyway, or less plausibly, the inevitable result of increased self-
confidence that the magick spell brought about in the magician.  If these 
explanations are insufficient then perhaps the grace of God, angelic 
intervention, demonic agency, or just good luck can be proffered.  It is the 
stance of modern chaos magick, however, that none of these explanations 
are necessary, except perhaps in that they increase the  ability of the 
magician to engineer belief structures.  But the engineering of belief 
structures is a poor substitute for their suspension.  If quantum 
mechanics is correct, human beings live in a universe of mind numbing 
complexity, at an order of magnitude far greater than the ability of the 
human mind to comprehend.  If this is the case, and we live in a quantum 
flux of unlimited potentiality then all things are equally possible, all 
beliefs equally true, or, as Hassan Ibn Al Sabah, Le Vieux de Montagne, is 
alleged to have said, RNothing is True, Everything is Permitted.S  If this is 
the case the need of human psychology to explain events is merely another 
aspect of the totalitarian dictates of societyUs consensual belief 
structures.

The vacuity that characterizes the charging of a sigil in SpareUs system 
takes on a different color when viewed in the light of modern chaos 
magick.  It is the No-Mind of unlimited potential, a relaxation into the 
quantum flux, a suspension of both belief and disbelief, of all the 
paraphernalia of the rational, discursive mind, and of the seething, 
bubbling unconscious mind or, as Buddhists would say, RNot Two, Not One.S 
From this viewpoint, it is the discursive mind that is delusionary, the 
rational mind that presents phantasms of being and becoming.  The truth is 
that there is no Absolute, no becoming, no being, or as the RPrajna 
ParamitaS states:

		Dharmas here are empty
		all are the primal void.
		None are born or die.
		Nor are they stained or pure
		Nor do they wax or wane.(36)

The "Prajna Paramita", or Heart Sutra, is at the basis of the reformulation 
of Buddhism by Nagarjuna in the third century a.c.e.  Nagarjuna founded the 
Madhyamika school of Buddhism, of which Dzog Chen is an offshoot.  Ingrid 
Fischer-Schrieber wrote of Nagarjuna:

		Nagarjuna attempts to show the emptiness of the world
		through the relativity of opposites.  Opposites are mutually
		dependent; one member of a pair of opposites can only arise
		through the other.  From this he draws the conclusion that such
		entities cannot really exist, since the existence of one pre-
		supposes the existence of the other.(37)

The reader is cautioned that emptiness, or sunyata, in Buddhist 
terminology means limitlessness, or unlimited potentiality, which 
Madhyamika Buddhism asserts is the true ground of being.

SpareUs technique of Neither-Neither is kin to NagarjunaUs  mutual 
dependency of opposites.  Stephen Mace, in his brilliant analysis of Spare 
and Sorcery, _Stealing the Fire from Heaven_, described this technique:

		The Neither-Neither principle asserts that there is no truth 
		anywhere that is not balanced by an equally true opposite
		somewhere, and there is only perspective and circumstance 
		to determine which seems more true at any given time.  To 
		apply this principle to conjuring, wait until you are absolutely
		positive something is true, then search for its opposite.  When 
		you find it, oppose it to your TtruthU and let them annihilate 
		one another as well as they may.Any residue should oppose to its 
		opposite, and so on until your truth has been dismembered and 
		the passion converted into undirected energy - free belief.  By
		applying the Neither-Neither we can gut the meaningless 
		convictions that obsess us every day and use the power 
		released to cause the changes we desire. (38)

It is this Rundirected energy-free beliefS that is used to charge the sigil.  
For in this state of mind the magician brings the sigil to consciousness, 
concentrates on it, and allows it to sink past consciousness into the pool 
of undirected energy.  In Buddhism this state is called sunyata, or 
emptiness.

In my personal experiences of sunyata, it is a state of consciousness 
characterized not so much by silence, but by a great calm.  The mind, for 
me at least, continues to chatter, but it is now recognizable as just 
another function of the body.  The mind chatters just as the lungs breathe, 
just as the heart pumps.  Thoughts arise and fall, but the universe hums 
with energy, with limitless potentiality.  Space seems to expand and my 
vision becomes extremely clear.  Fairly rapidly, of course, I become 
distracted by the novelty of the experience and fall back into normal 
consciousness, or samsara.  

So SpareUs technique is one designed to reveal this state of mind, the one 
Buddhists term sunyata or emptiness and MaceUs Rundirected energyS may 
be thought of as synonymous with sunyata.  It is part of the annihilistic 
tendency in chaos magick that even SpareUs Neither-Neither technique can 
be considered an unneeded elaboration, for if this state of mind is the 
actual ground of being, then all that is needed is for the magician to look 
in another direction, an instant of work.  Thus, the whole edifice of ritual 
is viewed by chaos magicians as a kind of massage for the mind,a way to 
lull it into a state of Neither-Neither.  But actually, none of it is 
necessary, and perfectly valid results can be obtained just by creating a 
sigil and leaving it uncharged.  Some chaos magicians assert that sigils 
never need to be charged, that, in fact, the act of their creation slips  the 
sigil behind the discursive rational mind.  

There are other methods for creating sigils, also, and some of these 
collapse the charging into the creation.  For example I once did a sigil in a 
group workshop to produce a laser printer of a certain configuration, one 
that was unavailable at the time of the creation of the sigil.  My sigil, 
which was a paper sculpture composed of white paper that I had colored, 
rolled into a tube, cut, and shredded open, looked nothing like my magickal 
intention, and, as far as I could see had no initial reference to it either.  
When I finished it I threw it under the couch of a friend.  I guessed that 
the couch would not be moved for some time, and that when it was the 
paper would not be recognized and would be thrown away.  The act of 
creating the sigil charged it for I thought in a non-attached way, of the 
printer I wanted while I created the sculpture.  I recall that we did charge 
the sigil by holding our breath until near to fainting while staring at the 
sigil we had created.  This gave me a headache. Perhaps when my friend 
moved, as he did at around the time the printer I wanted manifested 
itself, he charged it when he threw it away.  Either way, the sigil worked, 
and I do not trouble myself with explaining to myself why it worked.  

Jan Fries, in _Visual Magick_, has a few other suggestions for the creation 
of sigils.  After discussing the traditional forms of pen, ink, and 
parchment, or wood engraving, or metalsmithing, Fries states:

		If you desire matters of dream magick you could draw your 
		sigil on paper, fold it into a paper boat, and send it off on a 
		river, stream, or pond.  The water destroys the body and 
		receives the idea.  You might draw the sigil in earth colours
		on your skin and dance until youUve sweated it off, or form the 
		shape in berries, food for the birds. You could draw it in the 
		earth with a stick and leave it for the rains, or give it, drawn 
		on paper, to the fire.  You might even feed on it.  Ink can be 
		washed off and drunk with water (use a non-toxic sort), and 
		some signs can be drawn or baked into cakes or bread. (39)

Chaos magicians on the Internet have developed other techniques.  After 
transforming the sigil into a mantra it is sent to a usenet newsgroup 
picked at random as a garbage post (or perhaps not so random, e.g. 
alt.jesus.is.lord).  One innovative method discussed on alt.magick.chaos 
involved developing a database of the numbers of frequently used public 
phones around the country.  Chaos magicians wishing to charge a sigil 
would choose a number, dial it, and, if the phone is picked up, shout the 
sigil at the baffled recipient.  

By now it should be clear that the technique of sigilising is not as 
important as the creation of the mental state which accompanies it, for it 
is in this ground state that magick works.  The Temple of Psychic Youth, 
founded fifteen years ago by Genesis P-Orridge and highly influenced by 
the sigil techniques of A.O.Spare is an international association of chaos 
magicians.  Genesis has since disavowed the project, but other members 
continue the association.  Historically members of the Temple of Psychic 
Youth would create sigils with three different bodily fluids and two 
different protions of hair and then send them to a central depository of 
sigils at one of the headquarters of the organization.  Despite the respect 
with which these sigils were regarded by TOPY members, it was widely 
recognized that the act was magickal because of the states of 
consciousness developed, the interplay that these states allowed between 
the conscious mind and the deep  mind (or that part of the mind that is not 
conscious), and that actually, the sigils could have been incinerated in a 
fire or confiscated by law enforcement authorities without harm being 
done to the magickal intention.  Indeed, rumors abound to this day,perhaps 
deliberately spread by TOPY members, that the sigil depository has been 
compromised by some such action.  The usefulness of rumors such as these 
lies in its ability to allow the ego of the chaos magician to confront the 
process of magick.  Should a TOPY member be concerned that a British 
bobby has his sigil, or that it was burnt, or that some nefarious black 
magician is now using it in dark magick?  Certainly, if these concerns 
allow the TOPY member to ask hirself what magick really is.   Genesis 
said, in an interview in _Gnosis_ magazine, about this issue:

		I wanted to contradict the tradition that those things were 
		innately dangerous for other people to have possession of.
		Because I thought that was something people had hypnotized
		themselves into being vulnerable to. (40)

P-OrridgeUs approach to chaos magick is typical in its insistence on the 
importance of belief structures and the general faith in access to a 
fundamental stream of energy and power that cannot really be termed 
human.  He said:

		Things do get manifested when you focus on them and truly
		desire and need them to manifest.  That happens.  And I donUt 
		really care why.  My suspicion is that itUs an innate gift that
		comes from so far ago and is so primal that itUs pointless
		putting names on it and trying to humanize it.  I think it is 
		always an error to humanize phenomena. (41)

For magick is not a  variant of the role playing game of Dungeons and 
Dragons , nor is it the Satanic cultism of the tabloid, although it may 
appear from a social perspective look like that way.  Magick is the 
dynamic synergy of the magicianUs desires with the quantum flow of the 
energy matrices of the universe.

Fries discusses in some detail the process of spell-making , and the 
common delusionary  knots with which magicians engaged in this 
confrontation bind themselves.  Most of these result from the mechanism 
Spare termed Rlust for resultS, and are solved through deliberately 
forgetting the sigil, the magickal intention, and, ultimately, the 
precipitating desire.

As Fries states:

		Sigils are used where conscious will finds its aim frustrated.
		We use sigils to bypass adverse conditions, to avoid the 
		censorship of identity, to achieve our will through avenues we 
		do not even know about.  If you think about results while 
		transmitting, you effectively bind your mind to find a solution
		along the desired channels, and this is frequently a hindrance,
		as Tthe desired channelsU are usually the very approach that 
		does not function.  Our conscious selves are often the greatest
		obstacle to the sigilUs manifestation.(42)
	

Unfortunately, as Fries points out, many magicians seem to miss the 
point, and, influenced by the power stratagems of traditional magick, 
charge and recharge their sigils,doubtless berating themselves for their 
magickal flaccidity as they do so.  In this way, they assume, the sheer 
force of their conscious will shall drive the sigil into the deep ground of 
being and hence to fruition.  In fact their actions raise ever stronger 
barriers against this occurring, as the conscious mind, whose habit it is 
to deny the unity of the universe and the interdependence of all 
phenomena, builds walls of steel against itself.  Fries counsels patience 
and compassion.  He suggests dealing with the non conscious mind as one 
would deal with an old, wise, dear friend.  He suggests:

		Magick can be worked quite easily once one learns to 
		re-believe in innocence, simplicity and direct inspiration.  Why 
		use a memorized invocation, including Tdivine namesU and 
		Twords of powerU when one can get better and livelier results 
		by Tspeaking from the heartU plus a dose of freestyle chaos 
		language and chanting? (43)

Why indeed?  Partly the answer lies in the personality and conditioning of 
the magician, partly in the depth of his experience of magick.  Magicians 
with very strong traditional belief structures, magicians conditioned by 
membership in a magickal order such as the Ordo Templi Orientis, or even 
the Illuminates of Thanateros, may need elaborate ritual in order to break 
down this conditioning until a state of simplicity can be reached.  
Magicians who are relatively new to magick may need ritual in order to 
increase self confidence and decrease the effect of the anti-magickal 
consensual belief structures.  Magicians, young or old, who have for some 
reason opened the door to their own simplicity can successfully cast a 
spell with a brief hand movement, with a howl at the moon, or with, as I 
do from time to time, curse with the crushing of a fortune cookie at a 
Chinese Restaurant.   No chaos magician writing today suggests discarding 
SpareUs techniques.  The hold of traditional magick is far too strong to 
neglect such an efficient system for deprogramming.  But at least among 
the community of chaos magicians discussing sigils on the Internet, 
suggestions are routinely made that magick is far simpler than even 
sigilising. 

According to the visions of many mystics the world itself is suffused 
with magick.  Gerald Manley Hopkins wrote in 1918:

		The world is charged with the grandeur of God
		It will flame out, like shining from shook foil;
		It gathers to a greatness, like the ooze of oil
		Crushed....

		from RGodUs GrandeurS

Although Hopkins writes within the paradigm of Christian mysticism, his 
insight of a world filled with supernal power is hardly different from the 
approach of a modern chaos magician, or a Dzog Chen master.  In the 
middle of the 17th Century Thomas Traherne wrote , describing the way in 
which he saw the world when he was a child:

		Rich diamond and pearl and gold
		In every place was seen;
	        Rare splendors, yellow, blue, red, white and green,
		Mine eyes did everywhere behold.

		From RWonderS

The experience of the universe as a place filled with unlimited 
potentiality, and gorgeous beyond description to boot, is typical of many 
altered states of mystical perception.  Dzog Chen maintains that this is 
the actual nature of the universe, a place of limitless light and 
potentiality.  Tibetan Buddhism is called the Vajrayana after this 
assertion, for Vajra means diamond, and the universe is a diamond web of 
dynamic interconnections.  Diamonds, in tantric tradition, are the 
crystallized sperm of the gods.  

The task of the magician who accepts the mysticUs description of the 
universe, or if not that of the mystic, the model of the universe proposed 
by quantum mechanics, for there is little to differentiate either model 
from one another, is to deprogram himself, to annihilate the 
discriminatory mind sets of rational thinking, the primary intellectual 
artefact of civilization.  For once this level of consciousness is reached, 
once the conscious and the non conscious mind are working together, then 
there is no difference between the will of the magician and the movement 
of the stream of energy that is the universe.

John CageUs statement about art is as applicable to magick.  He wrote:

	       The history of art is simply a history of getting rid of the ugly
	       by entering into it and using it.  After all, the notion of 
	       something outside of us being ugly is not outside of us but 
	       inside of us.  And thatUs why I keep reiterating that weUre 
	       working with our minds.  What weUre trying to do is to get 
	       them open so we donUt see things as being ugly or beautiful but 
	       we see them just as they are.  (44)

Substitute art with magick, ugly with unattainable and beautiful with 
attainable, and CageUs statement presents the formula for  chaos magick.
Sigils are just one means to bring about this transformation, to 
internalize a desire that the magician considers to be unachievable so that 
the discriminatory definitions of achievable and out of reach no longer 
have any validity.

Yet if there is so little difference between the mystic and the magician 
why are they traditionally viewed as two separate paths?  Few magicians 
would term themselves mystics (fearing relegation to the New Age) and 
even fewer mystics would term themselves magicians.  Sai Baba and a few 
other Indian gurus are exceptions.  In _Liber Kaos_, Peter Carroll postulated 
a psychohistorical theory that asserted that magickal shamanism, a 
simple  and fluid form of magick based upon a mystical awareness  of the 
interdependence of all phenomena, degrades into paganism, and with the 
growth of religious forms magick is relegated to a priestly caste, who, 
over a period of time lose access to the magickal current and degrade into 
formalism. (45)  The argument is plausible, particularly when placed 
alongside the rise of civilization, an event that required the development 
of hierarchical society.  Social hierarchy, of course, is a  template that is 
internalized at an early age, and defines access to power as being confined 
to channels devised by other than oneself.  This notion is anathema to 
magick in general, and chaos magick in particular.  Thus in tribal societies 
there would appear to be little difference between the mystic and the 
magician, both roles often being held in the personage of the tribal 
shaman, and all members of the tribe, in some degree or another, having 
access to the universal magickal power.  By the time one thousand years 
of Christian conditioning had afflicted the minds of the peoples of the 
West, magickal acts were either heretical, quaint and secretive folk 
practices, or, if approved by the Church, miraculous and the marks of 
sainthood.  Another thousand years of the slow deterioration of this 
conditioning, and, finally, the beginnings of breakdown in the toxic 
structures of civilization, and magick has begun to be seen as a power 
available to all, as a means of directly communicating with the universe 
as it is, and as a particularly appropriate series of techniques to live in a 
universe in which human beings are both as incidental and as important as 
all other phenomena.


__________________________________________________________

Footnotes

	1.      Donald Michael Kraig:  Modern Magick, Llewellyn, St. Paul, 
		Minnesota, 1992, p. 10

	2.	Kraig, p. 11

	3.	Kraig, p. 12

	4. 	Aleister Crowley:  Magick, Samuel Weiser, York Beach, Maine, 
		1973, p. 60

	5. 	Crowley, p. 332

	6.	Crowley, p. 294

	7.	Anton LaVey:  The Satanic Bible, Avon, 1969, p. 110

	8.	LaVey, p. 110

	9.	LaVey, p. 41

	10.	Michael Aquino: General Information and Admissions Policies, 
		Temple of Set, San Francisco, California, 1994, p. 4.

	11.     LaVey, p. 94

	12.	Peter Carroll: Liber Null and Psychonaut, Samuel Weiser, York 
		Beach, Maine, 1987, p. 154

	13.     Carroll, p. 165

	14.     Carroll, p. 103

	15.     Carroll, p. 167

	16.     Carroll, p. 151


	17.     Austin Osman Spare: Book of Pleasure (Self-Love), from From the 
		Inferno to Zos: The Writings and Images of Austin Osman Spare,
                First Impressions, Seattle, 1993 , p. 7

	18.     Spare, p. 7

	19.     Spare, p. 9

	20.     Spare, p. 30

	21.     Spare, p. 30

	22.     Spare, p. 33

	21.     Spare, p. 51

	22.     Spare, p. 37

	23.     Spare, p. 38

	24.     Spare, p. 47

	25.	Spare, p. 48

	26.     Spare, p. 48

	27.     Spare, p. 44

	28.     Spare, p. 44

	29.     Spare, p. 44

	30.     Spare, p. 44

	31.     Spare, p. 31

	32.     Spare, p. 51

	33.     Carroll, p. 20

	34.     Spare, p. 50

	35.     Frater U.D. : Practical Sigil Magick, Llewellyn, 1991, p. 6

	36.     Translation of the Heart Sutra in Roshi Philip Kapleau: Zen
		Dawn in the West, Anchor Books, Anchor Press/Doubleday, New 
		York, 1980, p. 180

	37.     Fischer-Schrieber, Erhard & Diener, tr. Michael Kohn: The 
		Shambhala Dictionary of Buddhism and Zen, Shambhala, Boston
		1991, p. 152

	38.	Stephen Mace: Stealing the Fire from Heaven, Privately Printed,
		New Haven, Connecticut, 1984, p. 20

	39.     Jan Fries:  Visual Magick: A Manual of Freestyle Shamanism, 
		Mandrake, Oxford, 1992, p. 16

	40.     Genesis-P-Orridge, interviewed by Jay Kinney in Gnosis, Summer 
		1994, p.52

	41.     Kinney, p. 53

	42.     Fries, p. 22

	43.     Fries, p. 35

	44.     John Cage quoted in Williams & Tollett: A Blip in the Continuum,
		Peachpit Press, Berkeley, California, 1995, p.81

	45.     Peter Carroll: Liber Kaos, Samuel Weiser, York Beach, 1992, p.53 
		to 75.



This is a work in progress, but may be freely disseminated on the Internet.
The author requests email notifying him of such acts. His address is 
marik@aol.com.

12/3/95
		


