From: Brother Bubba <jrbst31@unixs.cis.pitt.edu>
Subject: The Christian Olympics: 5. Raising the dead
Date: Wed, 07 Aug 1996 00:33:56 -0400
Organization: Brainwashed Victims of Christianity (BVC)


Disclaimer:  This is a parody.  It is not meant to be an accurate
depiction of the beliefs and actions of the people involved.  Any
similarities to actual events are purely accidental.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Bubba:  (gasping for breath)  Well, here we are at the venue for
our next event, the raising the dead competition.

Miles:  I didn't realize the morgue would smell so bad.  How did
the scoring end for the mountain moving contest?

Bubba:  The Judges have ruled that Atheist succeeded in moving half
of the mountain, for 500 points....  The current standings are.....



               Pope - 995 pts.
               Atheist - 705          
               Jesse Jackson - 610
               Morris Cerulo - 550    
               Mother Theresa -238
               Billy Graham - 30
               Oral Roberts - 25
               Jerry Falwell - 5 (dead)
               Pat Robertson - 0
               Robert Tilton - (-5) (injury)
               Benny Hinn  -  (-5) (injury)
Comments, Brother Miles.

Miles:  Atheist has now vaulted into second place, due to some
devious cheating and underhanded scheming.  However, he won't
survive our later events, so I still consider the Pope the gold
medal favorite.  I also expect Mother Theresa to stay in the medal
hunt.  One thing I don't understand is why they didn't also award
the points to the other competitors who prayed to move that
mountain.

Bubba:  I don't understand or agree with the ruling either, Brother
Miles.  I think it is pretty obvious that the LORD was just
answering their prayers in His own way, in His own time!

Miles:  My point exactly!  We can't question His ways or even begin
to understand them.

Bubba:  Now to our next event, Raising the Dead.  This event should
be extremely difficult.  How do you see this round unfolding?

Miles:  Well, Brother Bubba, I wouldn't expect anyone to score too
high here.  This miracle is one of the most difficult to perform.
The only people to have succeeded are Elijah, Elisha, Jesus, and
Paul.

Bubba:  If they succeed though, it will be worth 5,000 points.

Miles:  Let me add a historical footnote here, Brother Bubba.
Elisha was so talented in this event that he actually succeeded in
raising  the dead after he had already died himself.  Check out
2 Kings 13:20-21  "And Elisha died, and they buried him. And the
bands of Moabites invaded the land at the coming in of the year.
And it came to pass, as they were burying a man, that, behold, they
spied a band of men; and they cast the man into the sepulchre of
Elisha: and when the man was let down, and touched the bones of
Elisha, he revived, and stood up on his feet."

Bubba:  AMAZING!  Even Jesus didn't do that!!!

Miles:  So, I wouldn't count Jerry Falwell out.  His body has been
brought to this morgue, and he could score big, even take the lead.

Bubba:  OK, the competition has been joined!  Let's find out from
Manny what is happening.

Manny:  Well, the Dream Team seems sort of confused.  The Atheist
is taunting them.

Atheist:  Hey Christian scum, what happened to your faith!  If you
had but the faith of a mustard seed you could raise all these
people from the dead!

Miles:  Shameful.  I can't wait to see him drink that poison.

Bubba:  Looks like Pat Robertson has taken the initiative.  What's
he doing?

Manny:  Pat has just taken a dead little boy and has laid his naked
body on a table.

Miles:  Has Rigor Mortis set in?

Manny:  Yep, he's stiff as a board.  Pat is now climbing onto the
table and is laying upon the child.  He is now putting his mouth
upon the child's mouth, his eyes upon his eyes, and his hands upon
his hands...  That is certainly a passionate kiss!

Miles:  Why, he is using the Elisha technique.  That is what Elisha
did in 2 Kings 4:34-35.

Manny:  Now, he is lowering himself upon the child.  Looks like the
Holy Spirit has come upon Pat.  He is moaning and speaking in
tongues.

Bubba:  Do you think the heat generated from friction is all that
is needed to raise the body temperature back to normal?

Miles:  Unfortunately, it isn't so easy.  But he seems to have a
great deal of experience using Elisha's technique.

Bubba:  I wonder what technique Elisha would have used on a woman?

Miles:  Good question, Brother Bubba.  This technique surely
wouldn't work!  WAIT!!!!  DID THE BOY SNEEZE?
 
Manny:  No, Pat farted.  He's now climbed down, but the boy still
hasn't moved.  The Atheist has gotten sick!

Miles:  Perhaps the LORD has smitten him with a plague!

Bubba:  Well, we have now run out of time and no one has scored.  I
was really hoping Jerry Falwell would be returning to finish the
competition.

Manny:  With me now, I am talking to Pat Robertson.  Pat, that was
a wonderful and touching thing you did as you valiantly tried to
bring that boy back to us.

Pat:  I did my best, but God just told me that the boy was safe and
sound playing his harp in heaven.  It was not the Lord's will that
he return to face eternal judgment a second time.

Manny:  Thank you, Pat.

Pat:  My pleasure, Manny.  After I rest a bit, I might try and
revive some other little boys, that is, if we have time.

Manny:  Good luck, but I think we are leaving for the Sea of
Galilee in 5 minutes.

Bubba:  Well, lets take a look at our scoreboard again.  As
expected there are no changes from last round.

               Pope - 995 pts.
               Atheist - 705          
               Jesse Jackson - 610
               Morris Cerulo - 550    
               Mother Theresa -238
               Billy Graham - 30
               Oral Roberts - 25
               Jerry Falwell - 5 (dead)
               Pat Robertson - 0
               Robert Tilton - (-5) (injury)
               Benny Hinn  -  (-5) (injury)
Comments, Brother Miles.

Miles:  As I said earlier, this was the result to expect,
especially with that doubting Atheist present.  Manny, is that
Atheist still alive?  He shouldn't be.

Manny:  He is.

to be continued...

